bundles/org.openhab.binding.unifi/README.md, before:

# UniFi Binding

This binding integrates with [Ubiquiti UniFi Networks](https://www.ubnt.com/products/#unifi) allowing for presence detection of network clients.


## Supported Things

* `controller` - An instance of the UniFi controller software
* `site` - A site thing with connection statistics
* `wlan` - A wireless network thing. Control Wi-Fi network and easy access to access.
* `wirelessClient` - Any wireless client connected to a UniFi wireless network
* `wiredClient` - A wired client connected to the UniFi network
* `poePort` - A PoE (Power over Ethernet) port on a UniFi switch

## Discovery

The binding supports discovery of things connected to a UniFi controller (Bridge).
To discover things start the discovery process manually.

## Binding Configuration

The binding has no configuration options, all configuration is done at the Bridge and Thing levels.

## Bridge Configuration

You need at least one UniFi Controller (Bridge) for this binding to work.
It requires a network accessible instance of the [Ubiquiti Networks Controller Software](https://www.ubnt.com/download/unifi).

The following table describes the Bridge configuration parameters:

| Parameter                | Description                                                                 | Config   | Default |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |--------- | ------- |
| host                     | Hostname of IP address of the UniFi Controller                              | Required | -       |
| port                     | Port of the UniFi Controller. For UniFi OS, the default port is usually 443 | Required | -       |
| unifios                  | If the UniFi Controller is running on UniFi OS                              | Required | false   |
| username                 | The username to access the UniFi Controller                                 | Required | -       |
| password                 | The password to access the UniFi Controller                                 | Required | -       |
| refresh                  | Refresh interval in seconds                                                 | Optional | 10      |

## Thing Configuration

You must define a UniFi Controller (Bridge) before defining UniFi Things for this binding to work.

### `site`

The following table describes the `site` configuration parameters:

| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| sid          | The name, description or id of the site                      | Required | -       |

### `wlan`

The following table describes the `wlan` configuration parameters:

| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| wid          | The name or id of the WLAN                                   | Required | -       |

### `wirelessClient` & `wiredClient`

The following table describes the `wirelessClient` & `wiredClient` configuration parameters:


| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| cid          | The MAC address, IP address, hostname or alias of the client | Required | -       |
| site         | The site where the client should be found                    | Optional | -       |
| considerHome | The interval in seconds to consider the client as home       | Optional | 180     |

Here's some additional notes regarding the thing configuration parameters:

##### `cid`

The `cid` parameter is a universal "client identifier". It accepts the following values:

  1. MAC address [highest priority]
  1. IP address
  1. Hostname (as show by the controller)
  1. Alias (as defined by you in the controller UI) [lowest priority]

The priority essentially means the binding attempts to lookup by MAC address, then by IP address, then by hostname and finally by alias.
Once it finds a matching client, it short circuits and stops searching.
Most of the time, you will simply use the  MAC address.

##### `site`

The `site` parameter is optional. If you leave it blank, the client will appear `ONLINE` if found in *any* site defined on the controller.

You may use the `site` parameter as a filter if you only want the client to appear home if it is found in the site defined in the `site` parameter.

Additionally, you may use friendly site names as they appear in the controller UI.

##### `considerHome`

The `considerHome` parameter allows you to control how quickly the binding marks a client as away.
For example, using the default of `180` (seconds), the binding will report a client away as soon as `lastSeen` + `180` (seconds) < `now`.

### `poePort`

The following table describes the `poePort` configuration parameters:


| Parameter  | Description                                               | Config   |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| portNumber | The port number as reported by the switch (starts with 1) | Required |
| macAddress | The MAC address of the switch device the port is part of  | Required |


## Channels

### `site`

The `site` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID      | Item Type | Description                          | Permissions |
|-----------------|-----------|--------------------------------------|-------------|
| totalClients    | Number    | Total number of clients connected    | Read        |
| wirelessClients | Number    | Number of wireless clients connected | Read        |
| wiredClients    | Number    | Number of wired clients connected    | Read        |
| guestClients    | Number    | Number of guest clients connected    | Read        |

### `wlan`

The `wlan` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID      | Item Type | Description                                                                     | Permissions |
|-----------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| enable          | Switch    | Enable status of the WLAN                                                       | Read, Write |
| wirelessClients | Number    | Number of wireless clients connected                                            | Read        |
| guestClients    | Number    | Number of guest clients connected                                               | Read        |
| essid           | String    | Wireless Network (ESSID)                                                        | Read        |
| site            | String    | UniFi Site the client is associated with                                        | Read        |
| security        | String    | Security protocol of the Wi-Fi network                                          | Read        |
| wlanBand        | String    | Wireless LAN band of the Wi-Fi network                                          | Read        |
| wpaEnc          | String    | WPA Encoding of the Wi-Fi network                                               | Read        |
| wpaMode         | String    | WPA Mode of the Wi-Fi network                                                   | Read        |
| passphrase      | String    | Passphrase of the Wi-Fi network                                                 | Read        |
| qrcodeEncoding  | String    | MECARD like encoding to generate a QR Code for easy access to the Wi-Fi network | Read        |

::: warning Attention
If you link an item to the `passphrase` or `qrcodeEncoding` channel your Wi-Fi password will be  exposed in openHAB.
The password will also be visible in openHAB event log.
:::

The `qrcodeEncoding` channel can be used to easily create a QR Code to access, for example, a guest network.
It contains a MECARD like representation of the access.
This is the notation used in QR Codes that can be scanned by mobile phones.

### `wirelessClient`

The `wirelessClient` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type            | Description                                                          | Permissions |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch               | Online status of the client                                          | Read        |
| site       | String               | Site name (from the controller web UI) the client is associated with | Read        |
| macAddress | String               | MAC address of the client                                            | Read        |
| ipAddress  | String               | IP address of the client                                             | Read        |
| guest      | Switch               | On if this is a guest client                                         | Read        |
| ap         | String               | Access point (AP) the client is connected to                         | Read        |
| essid      | String               | Network name (ESSID) the client is connected to                      | Read        |
| rssi       | Number               | Received signal strength indicator (RSSI) of the client              | Read        |
| uptime     | Number:Time          | Uptime of the client (in seconds)                                    | Read        |
| lastSeen   | DateTime             | Date and Time the client was last seen                               | Read        |
| experience | Number:Dimensionless | Overall health indication of the client (in percentage)              | Read        |
| blocked    | Switch               | Blocked status of the client                                         | Read, Write |
| cmd        | String               | Command channel: `reconnect` to force the client to reconnect        | Write       |
| reconnect  | Switch               | Force the client to reconnect                                        | Write       |


_Note: All channels with the Write permission require administrator credentials as defined in the controller._

### `wiredClient`

The `wiredClient` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type            | Description                                                          | Permissions |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch               | Online status of the client                                          | Read        |
| site       | String               | Site name (from the controller web UI) the client is associated with | Read        |
| macAddress | String               | MAC address of the client                                            | Read        |
| ipAddress  | String               | IP address of the client                                             | Read        |
| uptime     | Number:Time          | Uptime of the client (in seconds)                                    | Read        |
| lastSeen   | DateTime             | Date and Time the client was last seen                               | Read        |
| experience | Number:Dimensionless | Overall health indication of the client (in percentage)              | Read        |
| blocked    | Switch               | Blocked status of the client                                         | Read, Write |

##### `blocked`

The `blocked` channel allows you to block / unblock a client via the controller.

##### `reconnect`

The `reconnect` channel allows you to force a client to reconnect.
Sending `ON` to this channel will trigger a reconnect via the controller.

### `poePort`

The `poePort` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type                | Description                                           | Permissions |
|------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch                   | Online status of the port                             | Read        |
| mode       | Selection                | Select the PoE mode: off, auto, pasv24 or passthrough | Read, Write |
| enable     | Switch                   | Enable Power over Ethernet                            | Read, Write |
| cmd        | String                   | Command channel: `power-cycle`: Power Cycle port      | Write       |
| power      | Number:Power             | Power consumption of the port in Watt                 | Read        |
| voltage    | Number:ElectricPotential | Voltage of the port in Volt                           | Read        |
| current    | Number:ElectricCurrent   | Current used by the port in mA                        | Read        |

The `enable` switch channel has a configuration parameter `mode` which is the value used to switch PoE on when the channel is switched to ON.
The default mode value is `auto`.

## Full Example

things/unifi.things

```
Bridge unifi:controller:home "UniFi Controller" [ host="unifi", port=8443, unifios=false, username="$username", password="$password", refresh=10 ] {
	Thing wirelessClient matthewsPhone "Matthew's iPhone" [ cid="$cid", site="default", considerHome=180 ]
}
```

_Note: Usually on Unifi OS, the default port is 443_

Replace `$user`, `$password` and `$cid` accordingly.

items/unifi.items

```
Switch      MatthewsPhone           "Matthew's iPhone [MAP(unifi.map):%s]"             { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:online" }
String      MatthewsPhoneSite       "Matthew's iPhone: Site [%s]"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:site" }
String      MatthewsPhoneMAC        "Matthew's iPhone: MAC [%s]"                       { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:macAddress" }
String      MatthewsPhoneIP         "Matthew's iPhone: IP [%s]"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:ipAddress" }
String      MatthewsPhoneAP         "Matthew's iPhone: AP [%s]"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:ap" }
String      MatthewsPhoneESSID      "Matthew's iPhone: ESSID [%s]"                     { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:essid" }
Number      MatthewsPhoneRSSI       "Matthew's iPhone: RSSI [%d]"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:rssi" }
Number:Time MatthewsPhoneUptime     "Matthew's iPhone: Uptime [%1$tR]"                 { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:uptime" }
DateTime    MatthewsPhoneLastSeen   "Matthew's iPhone: Last Seen [%1$tH:%1$tM:%1$tS]"  { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:lastSeen" }
Switch      MatthewsPhoneBlocked    "Matthew's iPhone: Blocked"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:blocked" }
Switch      MatthewsPhoneReconnect  "Matthew's iPhone: Reconnect"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:reconnect" }
```

transform/unifi.map

```
ON=Home
OFF=Away
```

sitemaps/unifi.sitemap

```
sitemap unifi label="UniFi Binding"
{
	Frame {
		Text item=MatthewsPhone
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneSite
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneMAC
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneIP
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneAP
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneESSID
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneRSSI
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneUptime
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneLastSeen
		Switch item=MatthewsPhoneBlocked
		Switch item=MatthewsPhoneReconnect
	}
}
```

Commit message:

guest voucher support
Signed-off-by: Mark Herwege <mark.herwege@telenet.be>

bundles/org.openhab.binding.unifi/README.md, after:

# UniFi Binding

This binding integrates with [Ubiquiti UniFi Networks](https://www.ubnt.com/products/#unifi) allowing for presence detection of network clients.


## Supported Things

* `controller` - An instance of the UniFi controller software
* `site` - A site thing with connection statistics
* `wlan` - A wireless network thing. Control Wi-Fi network and easy access to access.
* `wirelessClient` - Any wireless client connected to a UniFi wireless network
* `wiredClient` - A wired client connected to the UniFi network
* `poePort` - A PoE (Power over Ethernet) port on a UniFi switch

## Discovery

The binding supports discovery of things connected to a UniFi controller (Bridge).
To discover things start the discovery process manually.

## Binding Configuration

The binding has no configuration options, all configuration is done at the Bridge and Thing levels.

## Bridge Configuration

You need at least one UniFi Controller (Bridge) for this binding to work.
It requires a network accessible instance of the [Ubiquiti Networks Controller Software](https://www.ubnt.com/download/unifi).

The following table describes the Bridge configuration parameters:

| Parameter                | Description                                                                 | Config   | Default |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |--------- | ------- |
| host                     | Hostname of IP address of the UniFi Controller                              | Required | -       |
| port                     | Port of the UniFi Controller. For UniFi OS, the default port is usually 443 | Required | -       |
| unifios                  | If the UniFi Controller is running on UniFi OS                              | Required | false   |
| username                 | The username to access the UniFi Controller                                 | Required | -       |
| password                 | The password to access the UniFi Controller                                 | Required | -       |
| refresh                  | Refresh interval in seconds                                                 | Optional | 10      |

## Thing Configuration

You must define a UniFi Controller (Bridge) before defining UniFi Things for this binding to work.

### `site`

The following table describes the `site` configuration parameters:

| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| sid          | The name, description or id of the site                      | Required | -       |

### `wlan`

The following table describes the `wlan` configuration parameters:

| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| wid          | The name or id of the WLAN                                   | Required | -       |

### `wirelessClient` & `wiredClient`

The following table describes the `wirelessClient` & `wiredClient` configuration parameters:


| Parameter    | Description                                                  | Config   | Default |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------|--------- | ------- |
| cid          | The MAC address, IP address, hostname or alias of the client | Required | -       |
| site         | The site where the client should be found                    | Optional | -       |
| considerHome | The interval in seconds to consider the client as home       | Optional | 180     |

Here's some additional notes regarding the thing configuration parameters:

##### `cid`

The `cid` parameter is a universal "client identifier". It accepts the following values:

  1. MAC address [highest priority]
  1. IP address
  1. Hostname (as show by the controller)
  1. Alias (as defined by you in the controller UI) [lowest priority]

The priority essentially means the binding attempts to lookup by MAC address, then by IP address, then by hostname and finally by alias.
Once it finds a matching client, it short circuits and stops searching.
Most of the time, you will simply use the  MAC address.

##### `site`

The `site` parameter is optional. If you leave it blank, the client will appear `ONLINE` if found in *any* site defined on the controller.

You may use the `site` parameter as a filter if you only want the client to appear home if it is found in the site defined in the `site` parameter.

Additionally, you may use friendly site names as they appear in the controller UI.

##### `considerHome`

The `considerHome` parameter allows you to control how quickly the binding marks a client as away.
For example, using the default of `180` (seconds), the binding will report a client away as soon as `lastSeen` + `180` (seconds) < `now`.

### `poePort`

The following table describes the `poePort` configuration parameters:


| Parameter  | Description                                               | Config   |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| portNumber | The port number as reported by the switch (starts with 1) | Required |
| macAddress | The MAC address of the switch device the port is part of  | Required |


## Channels

### `site`

The `site` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID            | Item Type | Description                                                            | Permissions |
|-----------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| totalClients          | Number    | Total number of clients connected                                      | Read        |
| wirelessClients       | Number    | Number of wireless clients connected                                   | Read        |
| wiredClients          | Number    | Number of wired clients connected                                      | Read        |
| guestClients          | Number    | Number of guest clients connected                                      | Read        |
| guestVoucher          | String    | Guest voucher for access through the guest portal                      | Read        |
| guestVouchersGenerate | String    | Generate additional guest vouchers for access through the guest portal | Write       |

The `guestVouchersGenerate` string channel is a command only channel that will trigger voucher creation.
It has configuration parameters to tailor the vouchers created:

* `voucherCount`: Number of vouchers to create (default 1)
* `voucherExpiration`: Minutes a voucher is valid after activation (default 1440 min = 1 day)
* `voucherUsers`: Number of users for voucher, 0 if no limit (default 1)
* `voucherUpLimit`: Upload speed limit in kbps, no limit if not set
* `voucherDownLimit`: Download speed limit in kbps, no limit if not set
* `voucherDataQuota`: Data transfer quota in MB per user, no limit if not set

### `wlan`

The `wlan` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID      | Item Type | Description                                                                     | Permissions |
|-----------------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| enable          | Switch    | Enable status of the WLAN                                                       | Read, Write |
| wirelessClients | Number    | Number of wireless clients connected                                            | Read        |
| guestClients    | Number    | Number of guest clients connected                                               | Read        |
| essid           | String    | Wireless Network (ESSID)                                                        | Read        |
| site            | String    | UniFi Site the client is associated with                                        | Read        |
| security        | String    | Security protocol of the Wi-Fi network                                          | Read        |
| wlanBand        | String    | Wireless LAN band of the Wi-Fi network                                          | Read        |
| wpaEnc          | String    | WPA Encoding of the Wi-Fi network                                               | Read        |
| wpaMode         | String    | WPA Mode of the Wi-Fi network                                                   | Read        |
| passphrase      | String    | Passphrase of the Wi-Fi network                                                 | Read        |
| qrcodeEncoding  | String    | MECARD like encoding to generate a QR Code for easy access to the Wi-Fi network | Read        |

::: warning Attention
If you link an item to the `passphrase` or `qrcodeEncoding` channel your Wi-Fi password will be  exposed in openHAB.
The password will also be visible in openHAB event log.
:::

The `qrcodeEncoding` channel can be used to easily create a QR Code to access, for example, a guest network.
It contains a MECARD like representation of the access.
This is the notation used in QR Codes that can be scanned by mobile phones.

### `wirelessClient`

The `wirelessClient` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type            | Description                                                          | Permissions |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch               | Online status of the client                                          | Read        |
| site       | String               | Site name (from the controller web UI) the client is associated with | Read        |
| macAddress | String               | MAC address of the client                                            | Read        |
| ipAddress  | String               | IP address of the client                                             | Read        |
| guest      | Switch               | On if this is a guest client                                         | Read        |
| ap         | String               | Access point (AP) the client is connected to                         | Read        |
| essid      | String               | Network name (ESSID) the client is connected to                      | Read        |
| rssi       | Number               | Received signal strength indicator (RSSI) of the client              | Read        |
| uptime     | Number:Time          | Uptime of the client (in seconds)                                    | Read        |
| lastSeen   | DateTime             | Date and Time the client was last seen                               | Read        |
| experience | Number:Dimensionless | Overall health indication of the client (in percentage)              | Read        |
| blocked    | Switch               | Blocked status of the client                                         | Read, Write |
| cmd        | String               | Command channel: `reconnect` to force the client to reconnect        | Write       |
| reconnect  | Switch               | Force the client to reconnect                                        | Write       |


_Note: All channels with the Write permission require administrator credentials as defined in the controller._

### `wiredClient`

The `wiredClient` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type            | Description                                                          | Permissions |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch               | Online status of the client                                          | Read        |
| site       | String               | Site name (from the controller web UI) the client is associated with | Read        |
| macAddress | String               | MAC address of the client                                            | Read        |
| ipAddress  | String               | IP address of the client                                             | Read        |
| uptime     | Number:Time          | Uptime of the client (in seconds)                                    | Read        |
| lastSeen   | DateTime             | Date and Time the client was last seen                               | Read        |
| experience | Number:Dimensionless | Overall health indication of the client (in percentage)              | Read        |
| blocked    | Switch               | Blocked status of the client                                         | Read, Write |

##### `blocked`

The `blocked` channel allows you to block / unblock a client via the controller.

##### `reconnect`

The `reconnect` channel allows you to force a client to reconnect.
Sending `ON` to this channel will trigger a reconnect via the controller.

### `poePort`

The `poePort` information that is retrieved is available as these channels:

| Channel ID | Item Type                | Description                                           | Permissions |
|------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| online     | Switch                   | Online status of the port                             | Read        |
| mode       | Selection                | Select the PoE mode: off, auto, pasv24 or passthrough | Read, Write |
| enable     | Switch                   | Enable Power over Ethernet                            | Read, Write |
| cmd        | String                   | Command channel: `power-cycle`: Power Cycle port      | Write       |
| power      | Number:Power             | Power consumption of the port in Watt                 | Read        |
| voltage    | Number:ElectricPotential | Voltage of the port in Volt                           | Read        |
| current    | Number:ElectricCurrent   | Current used by the port in mA                        | Read        |

The `enable` switch channel has a configuration parameter `mode` which is the value used to switch PoE on when the channel is switched to ON.
The default mode value is `auto`.

## Full Example

things/unifi.things

```
Bridge unifi:controller:home "UniFi Controller" [ host="unifi", port=8443, unifios=false, username="$username", password="$password", refresh=10 ] {
	Thing wirelessClient matthewsPhone "Matthew's iPhone" [ cid="$cid", site="default", considerHome=180 ]
}
```

_Note: Usually on Unifi OS, the default port is 443_

Replace `$user`, `$password` and `$cid` accordingly.

items/unifi.items

```
Switch      MatthewsPhone           "Matthew's iPhone [MAP(unifi.map):%s]"             { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:online" }
String      MatthewsPhoneSite       "Matthew's iPhone: Site [%s]"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:site" }
String      MatthewsPhoneMAC        "Matthew's iPhone: MAC [%s]"                       { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:macAddress" }
String      MatthewsPhoneIP         "Matthew's iPhone: IP [%s]"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:ipAddress" }
String      MatthewsPhoneAP         "Matthew's iPhone: AP [%s]"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:ap" }
String      MatthewsPhoneESSID      "Matthew's iPhone: ESSID [%s]"                     { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:essid" }
Number      MatthewsPhoneRSSI       "Matthew's iPhone: RSSI [%d]"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:rssi" }
Number:Time MatthewsPhoneUptime     "Matthew's iPhone: Uptime [%1$tR]"                 { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:uptime" }
DateTime    MatthewsPhoneLastSeen   "Matthew's iPhone: Last Seen [%1$tH:%1$tM:%1$tS]"  { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:lastSeen" }
Switch      MatthewsPhoneBlocked    "Matthew's iPhone: Blocked"                        { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:blocked" }
Switch      MatthewsPhoneReconnect  "Matthew's iPhone: Reconnect"                      { channel="unifi:wirelessClient:home:matthewsPhone:reconnect" }
```

transform/unifi.map

```
ON=Home
OFF=Away
```

sitemaps/unifi.sitemap

```
sitemap unifi label="UniFi Binding"
{
	Frame {
		Text item=MatthewsPhone
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneSite
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneMAC
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneIP
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneAP
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneESSID
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneRSSI
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneUptime
		Text item=MatthewsPhoneLastSeen
		Switch item=MatthewsPhoneBlocked
		Switch item=MatthewsPhoneReconnect
	}
}
```
