bundles/org.openhab.binding.ecovacs/README.md, before:

# Ecovacs Binding

This binding provides integration for vacuum cleaning / mopping robots made by Ecovacs (https://www.ecovacs.com/).
It discovers devices and communicates to them by using Ecovacs' cloud services.

## Supported Things

- Ecovacs cloud API (`ecovacsapi`)
- Vacuum cleaner (`vacuum`)

At this point, the following devices are fully supported and verified to be working:

- Deebot 900/901
- Deebot OZMO 920
- Deebot OZMO 930
- Deebot OZMO 950
- Deebot OZMO Slim 10/11
- Deebot N8 series

The following devices will likely work because they are using similar protocols as the above ones:

- Deebot 600/601/605
- Deebot OZMO 610
- Deebot 710/711/711s
- Deebot OZMO 900/905
- Deebot OZMO T5
- Deebot (OZMO) T8 series
- Deebot T9 series
- Deebot Slim 2
- Deebot N3 MAX
- Deebot N7
- Deebot U2 series
- Deebot X1 Omni

## Discovery

At first, you need to manually create the bridge thing for the cloud API. Once that is done, the supported devices will be automatically discovered and added to the inbox.

## Thing Configuration

For the cloud API thing, the following parameters must be configured:

| Config    | Description                                                                                                                   |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| email     | The email address you used when registering the Ecovacs cloud account                                                         |
| password  | The cloud account password                                                                                                    |
| continent | The continent you are residing on, or 'World' if none matches. This is used to select the correct cloud server to connect to. |

For the vacuum things, there is no required configuration. Optionally, you can tweak the following parameters:

| Config  | Description                                                                            |
|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| refresh | Refresh interval for polled data (see below), in minutes. By default set to 5 minutes. |

## Channels

The list below lists all channels supported by the binding. In case a particular channel is not supported by a given device (see remarks),
it is automatically removed from the given thing.

| Channel                                 | Type                 | Description                                               | Read Only | Updated By | Remarks  |
|-----------------------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------------|----------|
| actions#command                         | String               | Command to execute                                        | No        | Event      | [1]      |
| status#state                            | String               | Current operational state                                 | Yes       | Event      | [2]      |
| status#current-cleaning-mode            | String               | Mode used in current cleaning run                         | Yes       | Event      | [3], [4] |
| status#current-cleaning-time            | Number:Time          | Time spent in current cleaning run                        | Yes       | Event      | [4]      |
| status#current-cleaned-area             | Number:Area          | Area cleaned in current cleaning run                      | Yes       | Event      | [4]      |
| status#current-cleaning-spot-definition | String               | The spot to clean in current cleaning run                 | Yes       | Event      | [4], [5] |
| status#water-system-present             | Switch               | Whether the device is currently ready for mopping         | Yes       | Event      | [6]      |
| status#wifi-rssi                        | Number:Power         | The current Wi-Fi signal strength of the device           | Yes       | Polling    | [7]      |
| consumables#main-brush-lifetime         | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the main brush in percent      | Yes       | Polling    | [8]      |
| consumables#side-brush-lifetime         | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the side brush in percent      | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| consumables#dust-filter-lifetime        | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the dust bin filter in percent | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-start             | DateTime             | The start time of the last completed cleaning run         | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-duration          | Number:Time          | The duration of the last completed cleaning run           | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-area              | Number:Area          | The area cleaned in the last completed cleaning run       | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-mode              | String               | The mode used for the last completed cleaning run         | Yes       | Polling    | [3]      |
| last-clean#last-clean-map               | Image                | The map image of the last completed cleaning run          | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-cleaning-time         | Number:Time          | The total time spent cleaning during the device life time | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-cleaned-area          | Number:Area          | The total area cleaned during the device life time        | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-clean-runs            | Number               | The total number of clean runs in the device life time    | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| settings#auto-empty                     | Switch               | Whether dust bin auto empty to station is enabled         | No        | Polling    | [9]      |
| settings#cleaning-passes                | Number               | Number of cleaning passes to be used (1 or 2)             | No        | Polling    | [10]     |
| settings#continuous-cleaning            | Switch               | Whether unfinished cleaning resumes after charging        | No        | Polling    |          |
| settings#suction-power                  | String               | The power level used during cleaning                      | No        | Polling    | [11]     |
| settings#true-detect-3d                 | Switch               | Whether True Detect 3D is enabled                         | No        | Polling    | [12]     |
| settings#voice-volume                   | Dimmer               | The voice volume level in percent                         | No        | Polling    | [13]     |
| settings#water-amount                   | String               | The amount of water to be used when mopping               | No        | Polling    | [14]     |

Remarks:

- [1] See [section below](#command-channel-actions)
- [2] Possible states: 'cleaning', 'pause', 'stop', 'returning' and 'charging'
- [3] Possible states: 'auto', 'edge', 'spot', 'spotArea', 'customArea', 'singleRoom' (some of which depend on device capabilities)
- [4] Current cleaning status is only valid if the device is currently cleaning
- [5] Only valid for 'spot', 'spotArea' and 'customArea' cleaning modes; value can be used for 'spotArea' and 'customArea' commands (see below)
- [6] Only present if device has a mopping system
- [7] Only present on newer generation devices (Deebot OZMO 950 and newer)
- [8] Only present if device has a main brush
- [9] Only present if device has a dustbin auto empty station; supports both on/off command (to turn on/off the setting) and the string 'trigger' (to trigger immediate auto empty)
- [10] Only present on newer generation devices (Deebot N8/T8 or newer)
- [11] Only present if device can control power level. Possible values vary by device: 'normal' and 'high' are always supported, 'silent' and 'higher' are supported for some models
- [12] Only present if device supports True Detect 3D
- [13] Only present if device has voice reporting
- [14] Only present if device has a mopping system. Possible values include 'low', 'medium', 'high' and 'veryhigh'

## Command Channel Actions

The following actions are supported by the `command` channel:

| Name         | Action                                    | Remarks                                              |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| `clean`      | Start cleaning in automatic mode.         |                                                      |
| `spotArea`   | Start cleaning specific rooms.            | <ul><li>Only if supported by device, which can be recognized by `spotArea` being present in the list of possible states of the `current-cleaning-mode` channel.</li><li>Format: `spotArea:<room IDs>`, where `room IDs` is a semicolon separated list of room letters as shown in Ecovacs' app, so a valid command could e.g. be `spotArea:A;D;E`.</li><li>If you want to run 2 clean passes, amend `:x2` to the command, e.g. `spotArea:A;C;B:x2`.</li></ul> |
| `customArea` | Start cleaning specific areas.            | <ul><li>Only if supported by device, which can be recognized by `customArea` being present in the list of possible states of the `current-cleaning-mode` channel.</li><li>Format: `customArea:<x1>;<y1>;<x2>;<y2>, where the parameters are coordinates (in mm) relative to the map.</li><li>The coordinates can be obtained from the `current-cleaning-spot-definition` channel when starting a custom area run from the app.</li><li>If you want to run 2 clean passes, amend `:x2` to the command, e.g. `customArea:100;100;1000;1000:x2`.</li></ul> |
| `pause`      | Pause cleaning if it's currently active.  | If the device is idle, the command is ignored.       |
| `resume`     | Resume cleaning if it's currently paused. | If the device is not paused, the command is ignored. |
| `stop`       | Stop cleaning immediately.                |                                                      |
| `charge`     | Send device to charging station.          |                                                      |

## Rule actions

This binding includes a rule action, which allows playback of specific sounds on the device in case the device has a speaker.
There is a separate instance for each device, which can be retrieved like this:

```php
val vacuumActions = getActions("ecovacs","ecovacs:vacuum:1234567890")
```

where the first parameter always has to be `ecovacs` and the second is the full Thing UID of the device that should be used.
Once this action instance is retrieved, you can invoke the `playSound(String type)` method on it:

```php
vacuumActions.playSound("beep")
```

Supported sound types include:

- `beep`
- `iAmHere`
- `startup`
- `suspended`
- `batteryLow`

For special use cases, there is also a `playSoundWithId(int soundId)` method, where you can pass the numeric ID of the sound to play. The exact meaning of the number depends on the specific device; you'll need to experiment with different numbers to see how the number-to-sound mapping looks like. For reference, a list for the Deebot 900 can be found [here](https://github.com/bmartin5692/sucks/blob/D901/protocol.md#user-content-sounds).

## File Based Configuration

If you want to create the API bridge in a .things file, the entry has to look as follows:

```
Bridge ecovacs:ecovacsapi:ecovacsapi [ email="your.email@provider.com", password="yourpassword", continent="ww" ]
```

Then devices are detected automatically. If you also want to enter those manually, the syntax is as follows:

```
Bridge ecovacs:ecovacsapi:ecovacsapi [ email="your.email@provider.com", password="yourpassword", continent="ww" ]
{
    Thing vacuum myDeebot "Deebot Vacuum" [ serialNumber="serial as printed on label" ]
}
```

Commit message:

[ecovacs] Fix initialization failure for Deebot X1 Omni
When drying the pads, the clean mode could not be determined, which led
to a NullPointerException when later evaluating the mode.

Signed-off-by: Danny Baumann <dannybaumann@web.de>

bundles/org.openhab.binding.ecovacs/README.md, after:

# Ecovacs Binding

This binding provides integration for vacuum cleaning / mopping robots made by Ecovacs (https://www.ecovacs.com/).
It discovers devices and communicates to them by using Ecovacs' cloud services.

## Supported Things

- Ecovacs cloud API (`ecovacsapi`)
- Vacuum cleaner (`vacuum`)

At this point, the following devices are fully supported and verified to be working:

- Deebot 900/901
- Deebot OZMO 920
- Deebot OZMO 930
- Deebot OZMO 950
- Deebot OZMO Slim 10/11
- Deebot N8 series

The following devices will likely work because they are using similar protocols as the above ones:

- Deebot 600/601/605
- Deebot OZMO 610
- Deebot 710/711/711s
- Deebot OZMO 900/905
- Deebot OZMO T5
- Deebot (OZMO) T8 series
- Deebot T9 series
- Deebot Slim 2
- Deebot N3 MAX
- Deebot N7
- Deebot U2 series
- Deebot X1 Omni

## Discovery

At first, you need to manually create the bridge thing for the cloud API. Once that is done, the supported devices will be automatically discovered and added to the inbox.

## Thing Configuration

For the cloud API thing, the following parameters must be configured:

| Config    | Description                                                                                                                   |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| email     | The email address you used when registering the Ecovacs cloud account                                                         |
| password  | The cloud account password                                                                                                    |
| continent | The continent you are residing on, or 'World' if none matches. This is used to select the correct cloud server to connect to. |

For the vacuum things, there is no required configuration. Optionally, you can tweak the following parameters:

| Config  | Description                                                                            |
|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| refresh | Refresh interval for polled data (see below), in minutes. By default set to 5 minutes. |

## Channels

The list below lists all channels supported by the binding. In case a particular channel is not supported by a given device (see remarks),
it is automatically removed from the given thing.

| Channel                                 | Type                 | Description                                               | Read Only | Updated By | Remarks  |
|-----------------------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------------|----------|
| actions#command                         | String               | Command to execute                                        | No        | Event      | [1]      |
| status#state                            | String               | Current operational state                                 | Yes       | Event      | [2]      |
| status#current-cleaning-mode            | String               | Mode used in current cleaning run                         | Yes       | Event      | [3], [4] |
| status#current-cleaning-time            | Number:Time          | Time spent in current cleaning run                        | Yes       | Event      | [4]      |
| status#current-cleaned-area             | Number:Area          | Area cleaned in current cleaning run                      | Yes       | Event      | [4]      |
| status#current-cleaning-spot-definition | String               | The spot to clean in current cleaning run                 | Yes       | Event      | [4], [5] |
| status#water-system-present             | Switch               | Whether the device is currently ready for mopping         | Yes       | Event      | [6]      |
| status#wifi-rssi                        | Number:Power         | The current Wi-Fi signal strength of the device           | Yes       | Polling    | [7]      |
| consumables#main-brush-lifetime         | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the main brush in percent      | Yes       | Polling    | [8]      |
| consumables#side-brush-lifetime         | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the side brush in percent      | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| consumables#dust-filter-lifetime        | Number:Dimensionless | The remaining life time of the dust bin filter in percent | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-start             | DateTime             | The start time of the last completed cleaning run         | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-duration          | Number:Time          | The duration of the last completed cleaning run           | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-area              | Number:Area          | The area cleaned in the last completed cleaning run       | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| last-clean#last-clean-mode              | String               | The mode used for the last completed cleaning run         | Yes       | Polling    | [3]      |
| last-clean#last-clean-map               | Image                | The map image of the last completed cleaning run          | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-cleaning-time         | Number:Time          | The total time spent cleaning during the device life time | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-cleaned-area          | Number:Area          | The total area cleaned during the device life time        | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| total-stats#total-clean-runs            | Number               | The total number of clean runs in the device life time    | Yes       | Polling    |          |
| settings#auto-empty                     | Switch               | Whether dust bin auto empty to station is enabled         | No        | Polling    | [9]      |
| settings#cleaning-passes                | Number               | Number of cleaning passes to be used (1 or 2)             | No        | Polling    | [10]     |
| settings#continuous-cleaning            | Switch               | Whether unfinished cleaning resumes after charging        | No        | Polling    |          |
| settings#suction-power                  | String               | The power level used during cleaning                      | No        | Polling    | [11]     |
| settings#true-detect-3d                 | Switch               | Whether True Detect 3D is enabled                         | No        | Polling    | [12]     |
| settings#voice-volume                   | Dimmer               | The voice volume level in percent                         | No        | Polling    | [13]     |
| settings#water-amount                   | String               | The amount of water to be used when mopping               | No        | Polling    | [14]     |

Remarks:

- [1] See [section below](#command-channel-actions)
- [2] Possible states: 'cleaning', 'pause', 'stop', 'drying', 'returning' and 'charging' (where 'drying is only available on newer models with auto empty station)
- [3] Possible states: 'auto', 'edge', 'spot', 'spotArea', 'customArea', 'singleRoom' (some of which depend on device capabilities)
- [4] Current cleaning status is only valid if the device is currently cleaning
- [5] Only valid for 'spot', 'spotArea' and 'customArea' cleaning modes; value can be used for 'spotArea' and 'customArea' commands (see below)
- [6] Only present if device has a mopping system
- [7] Only present on newer generation devices (Deebot OZMO 950 and newer)
- [8] Only present if device has a main brush
- [9] Only present if device has a dustbin auto empty station; supports both on/off command (to turn on/off the setting) and the string 'trigger' (to trigger immediate auto empty)
- [10] Only present on newer generation devices (Deebot N8/T8 or newer)
- [11] Only present if device can control power level. Possible values vary by device: 'normal' and 'high' are always supported, 'silent' and 'higher' are supported for some models
- [12] Only present if device supports True Detect 3D
- [13] Only present if device has voice reporting
- [14] Only present if device has a mopping system. Possible values include 'low', 'medium', 'high' and 'veryhigh'

## Command Channel Actions

The following actions are supported by the `command` channel:

| Name         | Action                                    | Remarks                                              |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| `clean`      | Start cleaning in automatic mode.         |                                                      |
| `spotArea`   | Start cleaning specific rooms.            | <ul><li>Only if supported by device, which can be recognized by `spotArea` being present in the list of possible states of the `current-cleaning-mode` channel.</li><li>Format: `spotArea:<room IDs>`, where `room IDs` is a semicolon separated list of room letters as shown in Ecovacs' app, so a valid command could e.g. be `spotArea:A;D;E`.</li><li>If you want to run 2 clean passes, amend `:x2` to the command, e.g. `spotArea:A;C;B:x2`.</li></ul> |
| `customArea` | Start cleaning specific areas.            | <ul><li>Only if supported by device, which can be recognized by `customArea` being present in the list of possible states of the `current-cleaning-mode` channel.</li><li>Format: `customArea:<x1>;<y1>;<x2>;<y2>, where the parameters are coordinates (in mm) relative to the map.</li><li>The coordinates can be obtained from the `current-cleaning-spot-definition` channel when starting a custom area run from the app.</li><li>If you want to run 2 clean passes, amend `:x2` to the command, e.g. `customArea:100;100;1000;1000:x2`.</li></ul> |
| `pause`      | Pause cleaning if it's currently active.  | If the device is idle, the command is ignored.       |
| `resume`     | Resume cleaning if it's currently paused. | If the device is not paused, the command is ignored. |
| `stop`       | Stop cleaning immediately.                |                                                      |
| `charge`     | Send device to charging station.          |                                                      |

## Rule actions

This binding includes a rule action, which allows playback of specific sounds on the device in case the device has a speaker.
There is a separate instance for each device, which can be retrieved like this:

```php
val vacuumActions = getActions("ecovacs","ecovacs:vacuum:1234567890")
```

where the first parameter always has to be `ecovacs` and the second is the full Thing UID of the device that should be used.
Once this action instance is retrieved, you can invoke the `playSound(String type)` method on it:

```php
vacuumActions.playSound("beep")
```

Supported sound types include:

- `beep`
- `iAmHere`
- `startup`
- `suspended`
- `batteryLow`

For special use cases, there is also a `playSoundWithId(int soundId)` method, where you can pass the numeric ID of the sound to play. The exact meaning of the number depends on the specific device; you'll need to experiment with different numbers to see how the number-to-sound mapping looks like. For reference, a list for the Deebot 900 can be found [here](https://github.com/bmartin5692/sucks/blob/D901/protocol.md#user-content-sounds).

## File Based Configuration

If you want to create the API bridge in a .things file, the entry has to look as follows:

```
Bridge ecovacs:ecovacsapi:ecovacsapi [ email="your.email@provider.com", password="yourpassword", continent="ww" ]
```

Then devices are detected automatically. If you also want to enter those manually, the syntax is as follows:

```
Bridge ecovacs:ecovacsapi:ecovacsapi [ email="your.email@provider.com", password="yourpassword", continent="ww" ]
{
    Thing vacuum myDeebot "Deebot Vacuum" [ serialNumber="serial as printed on label" ]
}
```
