# Lutron Binding

This binding integrates with [Lutron](http://www.lutron.com) lighting control and home automation systems.
It contains separate binding support for four different types of Lutron systems:

* RadioRA 2 and other systems that can be controlled by Lutron Integration Protocol, such as Homeworks QS, RA2 Select, and Caseta PRO
* The original RadioRA system, referred to here as RadioRA Classic
* Legacy HomeWorks RS232 Processors
* Grafik Eye 3x/4x systems with GRX-PRG or GRX-CI-PRG control interfaces

Each is described in a separate section below.

# Lutron RadioRA 2 Binding

**Note:** While the integration protocol used by this binding should largely be compatible with other current Lutron systems, this binding has only been fully tested with RadioRA 2 and Caseta.
Homeworks QS support is still a work in progress.
RA2 Select is believed to work, but it is unconfirmed.
It has not yet been tested with Quantum, QS Standalone, or myRoom plus systems.

**Note:** Caseta support is only possible with the Smart Bridge **Pro** hub.
The standard Caseta hub does not support Lutron Integration Protocol.

## Supported Things

This binding currently supports the following thing types:

* **ipbridge** - The Lutron main repeater/processor/hub
* **dimmer** - Dimmer or fan controller
* **switch** - Switch or relay module
* **occupancysensor** - Occupancy/vacancy sensor
* **keypad** - Lutron seeTouch or Hybrid seeTouch Keypad
* **ttkeypad** - Tabletop seeTouch Keypad
* **intlkeypad** - International seeTouch Keypad (HomeWorks QS only)
* **pico** - Pico Keypad
* **grafikeyekeypad** - GRAFIK Eye QS Keypad (RadioRA 2/HomeWorks QS only)
* **virtualkeypad** - Repeater virtual keypad
* **vcrx** - Visor control receiver module (VCRX)
* **qsio** - HomeWorks QS IO Interface
* **cco** - Contact closure output module or VCRX CCO
* **shade** - Lutron shade or motorized drape
* **greenmode** - Green Mode subsystem
* **timeclock** - Scheduling subsystem

## Discovery

Full discovery is supported for RadioRA 2 and HomeWorks QS systems.
Both the main repeaters/processors themselves and the devices connected to them can be automatically discovered.
Discovered repeaters/processors will be accessed using the default integration credentials.
These can be changed in the bridge thing configuration.
Discovered keypad devices should now have their model parameters automatically set to the correct value.

Hubs and their connected devices in Caseta and RA2 Select systems need to be configured manually.

## Binding Configuration

This binding does not require any special configuration.

## Thing Configuration and Usage

Each Lutron thing requires the integration ID of the corresponding item in the Lutron system.
The integration IDs can be retrieved from the integration report generated by the Lutron software.
If a thing will not come online, but instead has the status "UNKNOWN: Awaiting initial response", it is likely that you have configured the wrong integration ID for it.

### Bridge

A bridge may currently be a RadioRA 2 main repeater, a HomeWorks QS Processor, a Caseta Smart Bridge Pro, or a RA2 Select main repeater.
The bridge configuration requires the IP address of the bridge as well as the telnet username and password to log in to the bridge.

It is recommended that main repeaters/processors be configured with static IP addresses.
However if automatic discovery is used, the bridge thing will work with DHCP-configured addresses.

The optional advanced parameter `heartbeat` can be used to set the interval between connection keepalive heartbeat messages, in minutes.
It defaults to 5.
Note that the handler will wait up to 30 seconds for a heartbeat response before attempting to reconnect.
The optional advanced parameter `reconnect` can be used to set the connection retry interval, in minutes.
It also defaults to 5.

The optional advanced parameter `discoveryFile` can be set to force the device discovery service to read the Lutron configuration XML from a local file rather than retrieving it via HTTP from the RadioRA 2 or HomeWorks QS bridge device.
This is useful in the case of some older Lutron software versions, where the discovery service may have problems retrieving the file from the bridge device.
Note that the user which openHAB runs under must have permission to read the file.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Bridge lutron:ipbridge:radiora2 [ ipAddress="192.168.1.2", user="lutron", password="integration" ] {
    Thing ...
    Thing ...
}
```

### Dimmers

Dimmers can optionally be configured to specify a fade in and fade out time in seconds using the `fadeInTime` and `fadeOutTime` parameters.
A **dimmer** thing has a single channel *lightlevel* with type Dimmer and category DimmableLight.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing dimmer livingroom [ integrationId=8, fadeInTime=0.5, fadeOutTime=5 ]
```

### Switches

Switches take no additional parameters besides `integrationId`.
A **switch** thing has a single channel *switchstatus* with type Switch and category Switch.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing switch porch [ integrationId=8 ]
```

### Occupancy Sensors

An **occupancysensor** thing interfaces to Lutron Radio Powr Savr wireless occupancy/vacancy sensors.
It accepts no configuration parameters other than `integrationID`.

The binding creates one *occupancystatus* channel, Item type Switch, category Motion.
It is read-only, and ignores all commands.
The channel state can be monitored for occupied (ON) or unoccupied (OFF) events coming from the sensor.
The sensors cannot be queried for their state, so initial channel state at startup will be undefined (NULL).

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing occupancysensor shopsensor [ integrationId=7 ]
```

### seeTouch and Hybrid seeTouch Keypads

seeTouch and Hybrid seeTouch keypads are interfaced with using the **keypad** thing.
In addition to the usual `integrationID` parameter, it accepts `model` and `autorelease` parameters.
The `model` parameter should be set to the Lutron keypad model number.
This will cause the handler to create only the appropriate channels for that particular keypad model.
The default is "Generic", which will cause the handler to create all possible channels, some of which will likely not be appropriate for your model.

The `autorelease` parameter is a boolean.
Setting it to true will cause each button channel state to transition back to OFF (released) automatically after a going to ON when a button is pressed.
Normally, a Lutron keypad will send a "pressed" event when a button is pressed, and a "released" event when it is released.
The handler will set the button channel state to ON when it receives the "pressed" event, and "off" when it receives the "released" event.
This allows you to take actions on both state changes.
However, some integration applications such as Lutron Home+ only cause a "pressed" event to be generated when remotely "pressing" a button.
A "release" is never sent, therefore the button channel would become "stuck" in the ON state.
To prevent this the `autorelease` parameter defaults to true.
If you do not use integration applications that exhibit this sort of anti-social behavior and you wish to trigger rules on both button press and release, you should set `autorelease` to false.

The `autorelease` parameter also effects behavior when sending an ON command to a button channel to trigger a remote button press.
If `autorelease` is set, the handler will send action "release" to the device component immediately after sending action "press".
When the controller responds, the channel state will be transitioned back to OFF.

A channel *button[nn]* with item type Switch and category Switch is created for each button, and a channel *led[nn]* with item type Switch and category Light is created for each button indicator LED.
You can monitor button channels for ON and OFF state changes to indicate button presses and releases, and send ON and OFF commands to remotely press and release buttons.
Ditto for the indicator LED channels.
Note, however, that version 11.6 or higher of the RadioRA 2 software may be required in order to drive keypad LED states, and then this may only be done on unbound buttons.

Component numbering: For button and LED layouts and numbering, see the Lutron Integration Protocol Guide (rev. AA) p.104 (http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/040249.pdf).
If you are having problems determining which channels have been created for a given keypad model, click on the thing under Configuration/Things in the Paper UI, or run the command `things show <thingUID>` (e.g. `things show lutron:keypad:radiora2:entrykeypad`) from the openHAB CLI to list the channels.

Supported settings for `model` parameter: H1RLD, H2RLD, H3BSRL, H3S, H4S, H5BRL, H6BRL, HN1RLD, HN2RLD, HN3S, HN3BSRL, HN4S, HN5BRL, HN6BRL, W1RLD, W2RLD, W3BD, W3BRL, W3BSRL, W3S, W4S, W5BRL, W5BRLIR, W6BRL, W7B, Generic (default)

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing keypad entrykeypad [ integrationId=10, model="W7B" autorelease=true ]
```

Example rule triggered by a keypad button press:

```
rule ExampleScene
when
  Item entrykeypad_button4 received update ON
then
  Library1_Brightness.sendCommand(OFF)
end
```

### Tabletop seeTouch Keypads

Tabletop seeTouch keypads use the **ttkeypad** thing.
It accepts the same `integrationID`, `model`, and `autorelease` parameters and creates the same channel types as the **keypad** thing.
See the **keypad** section above for a full discussion of configuration and use.

Component numbering: For button and LED layouts and numbering, see the Lutron Integration Protocol Guide (rev. AA) p.110 (http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/040249.pdf).
If you are having problems determining which channels have been created for a given keypad model, click on the thing under Configuration/Things in the Paper UI, or run the command `things show <thingUID>` (e.g. `things show lutron:ttkeypad:radiora2:bedroomkeypad`) from the openHAB CLI to list the channels.

Supported settings for `model` parameter: T5RL, T10RL, T15RL, T5CRL, T10CRL, T15CRL, Generic (default)

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing ttkeypad bedroomkeypad [ integrationId=11, model="T10RL" autorelease=true ]
```

### International seeTouch Keypads (Homeworks QS)

International seeTouch keypads used in the Homeworks QS system use the **intlkeypad** thing.
It accepts the same `integrationID`, `model`, and `autorelease` parameters and creates the same button and led channel types as the **keypad** thing.
See the **keypad** section above for a full discussion of configuration and use.

To support this keypad's contact closure inputs, CCI channels named *cci1* and *cci2* are created with item type Contact and category Switch.
They are marked as Advanced, so they will not be automatically linked to items in the Paper UI's Simple Mode.
They present ON/OFF states the same as a keypad button.

Component numbering: For button and LED layouts and numbering, see the Lutron Integration Protocol Guide (rev. AA) p.107 (http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/040249.pdf).
If you are having problems determining which channels have been created for a given keypad model, click on the thing under Configuration/Things in the Paper UI, or run the command `things show <thingUID>` (e.g. `things show lutron:intlkeypad:hwprocessor:kitchenkeypad`) from the openHAB CLI to list the channels.

Supported settings for `model` parameter: 2B, 3B, 4B, 5BRL, 6BRL, 7BRL, 8BRL, 10BRL / Generic (default)

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing intlkeypad kitchenkeypad [ integrationId=15, model="10BRL" autorelease=true ]
```

### Pico Keypads

Pico keypads use the **pico** thing.
It accepts the same `integrationID`, `model`, and `autorelease` parameters and creates the same channel types as the **keypad** and **ttkeypad** things.
The only difference is that no LED channels will be created, since Pico keypads have no indicator LEDs.
See the discussion above for a full discussion of configuration and use.

Component numbering: For button layouts and numbering, see the Lutron Integration Protocol Guide (rev. AA) p.113 (http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/040249.pdf).
If you are having problems determining which channels have been created for a given keypad model, click on the thing under Configuration/Things in the Paper UI, or run the command `things show <thingUID>` (e.g. `things show lutron:pico:radiora2:hallpico`) from the openHAB CLI to list the channels.

Supported settings for `model` parameter: 2B, 2BRL, 3B, 3BRL, 4B, Generic (default)

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing pico hallpico [ integrationId=12, model="3BRL", autorelease=true ]
```

### GRAFIK Eye QS Keypads (in RadioRA 2/HomeWorks QS systems)

GRAFIK Eye devices can contain up to 6 lighting dimmers, a scene controller, a time clock, and a front panel with a column of 5 programmable scene buttons and 0 to 3 columns of programmable shade or lighting control buttons.
They can be used as peripheral devices in a RadioRA 2 or HomeWorks QS system, or can be used as stand-alone controllers that themselves can control other Lutron devices.
The **grafikeyekeypad** thing is used to interface to the GRAFIK Eye QS front panel keypad when it is used in a RadioRA 2 or HomeWorks QS system.
In this configuration, the integrated dimmers will appear to openHAB as separate output devices.

If your GRAFIK Eye is being used as a stand-alone device and is not integrated in to a RadioRA 2 or HomeWorks QS system, then *this is not the thing you are looking for*.
You should instead be using the **grafikeye** thing (see below).

The **grafikeyekeypad** thing accepts the same `integrationID`, `model`, and `autorelease` parameters and creates the same button, led, and cci, channel types as the other keypad things (see above). The model parameter should be set to indicate whether there are zero, one, two, or three columns of buttons on the left side of the panel. Note that this count does not include the column of 5 scene buttons always found on the right side of the panel.

To support the GRAFIK Eye's contact closure input, a CCI channel named *cci1* will be created with item type Contact and category Switch.
It is marked as Advanced, so it will not be automatically linked to items in the Paper UI's Simple Mode.
It presents ON/OFF states the same as a keypad button.

Component numbering: The buttons and LEDs on the GRAFIK Eye are numbered top to bottom, starting with the 5 scene buttons in a column on the right side of the panel, and then proceeding with the columns of buttons (if any) on the left side of the panel, working left to right.
If you are having problems determining which channels have been created for a given model setting, click on the thing under Configuration/Things in the Paper UI, or run the command `things show <thingUID>` (e.g. `things show lutron:grafikeyekeypad:radiora2:theaterkeypad`) from the openHAB CLI to list the channels.

Supported settings for `model` parameter: 0COL, 1COL, 2COL, 3COL (default)

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing lutron:grafikeyekeypad:theaterkeypad (lutron:ipbridge:radiora2) [ integrationId=12, model="3COL", autorelease="true" ]
```

### Virtual Keypads

The **virtualkeypad** thing is used to interface to the virtual buttons on the RadioRA 2 main repeater.
These are sometimes referred to in the Lutron documentation as phantom buttons or integration buttons, and are used only for integration.
There are 100 of these virtual buttons, and 100 corresponding virtual indicator LEDs.

The behavior of this binding is the same as the other keypad bindings, with the exception that the button and led channels created have the Advanced flag set.
This means, among other things, that they will not be automatically linked to items in the Paper UI's Simple Mode.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing virtualkeypad repeaterbuttons [ integrationId=1, autorelease=true ]
```

### VCRX Modules

The Lutron VCRX appears to openHAB as multiple devices.
The 6 buttons (which can be activated remotely by HomeLink remote controls), 6 corresponding LEDs, and 4 contact closure inputs (CCIs) are handled by the **vcrx** thing, which behaves like a keypad.
The contact closure outputs (CCOs) have their own integration IDs and are handled by the **cco** thing (see below).

Supported options are `integrationId` and `autorelease`.
Supplying a model is not required, as there is only one model.

To support the contact closure inputs, CCI channels named *cci[n]* are created with item type Contact and category Switch.
They are marked as Advanced, so they will not be automatically linked to items in the Paper UI's Simple Mode.
They present OPEN/CLOSED states but do not accept commands as Contact items are read-only in openHAB.
Note that the `autorelease` option **does not** apply to CCI channels.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing vcrx vcrx1 [ integrationId=13, autorelease=true ]
```

### QS IO Interface (HomeWorks QS)

The Lutron QS IO Interface (QSE-IO) appears to openHAB as multiple devices.
The 5 contact closure inputs (CCIs) are handled by the **qsio** thing.
The 5 contact closure outputs (CCOs) are handled by the **cco** thing (see below).
The only configuration option is `integrationId`

To support the contact closure inputs, CCI channels named *cci[n]* are created with item type Contact and category Switch.
They are marked as Advanced, so they will not be automatically linked to items in the Paper UI's Simple Mode.
They present OPEN/CLOSED states but do not accept commands as Contact items are read-only in openHAB.

Some functionality may depend on QSE-IO DIP switch settings. See the Lutron documentation for more information.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing qsio sensorinputs [ integrationId=42 ]
```

### CCO Modules

Contact closure output (**cco**) things accept `outputType` and `pulseLength` parameters.
The `outputType` parameter is a string that should be set to "Pulsed" for pulsed CCOs or "Maintained" for non-pulsed CCOs.
The default is "Pulsed", since this is generally the safer wrong setting.
The `pulseLength` parameter sets the pulse length in seconds for a pulsed output.
It can range from 0.25 to 99.0 seconds and defaults to 0.5. It is ignored if `outputType="Maintained"`.
Be aware that the Lutron controller may round the pulse length down to the nearest 0.25 seconds.

The **ccopulsed** and **ccomaintained** things are just **cco** things with the `outputType` fixed.
They are used by autodiscovery to automatically set the correct output type.
You can also use them in manual configurations, if you prefer.
This may be a good idea if you are interfacing to sensitive equipment where accidentally setting the wrong output type might cause equipment damage.

Each **cco** thing creates one switch channel called *switchstatus*.
For pulsed CCOs, sending an ON command will close the output for the configured pulse time.
Sending an OFF command does nothing.
Because of limitations in RadioRA 2, you cannot monitor the state of a pulsed CCO.
Therefore, the channel state will only transition OFF->ON->OFF when you send a ON command.

For maintained CCOs, sending ON and OFF commands works as expected, and the channel state updates as expected when either openHAB commands or external events change the CCO device state.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing cco garage [ integrationId=5, outputType="Pulsed", pulseLength=0.5 ]
Thing ccopulsed gate [ integrationId=6, pulseLength=0.25 ]
Thing ccomaintained relay1 [ integrationId=7 ]
```

### Shades

Each Lutron shade or motorized drape is controlled by a **shade** thing.
The only configuration parameter it accepts is `integrationId`. 

A single channel *shadelevel* with item type Rollershutter and category Rollershutter will be created for each **shade** thing.
It accepts Percent, Up, Down, Stop and Refresh commands.
Sending a Percent command will cause the shade to immediately move so as to be open the specified percentage.
You can also read the current shade level from the channel.
It is specified as a percentage, where 0% = closed and 100% = fully open. Movement delays are not currently supported.
The shade handler should be compatible with all Lutron devices which appear to the system as shades, including roller shades, honeycomb shades, pleated shades, roman shades, tension roller shades, drapes, and Kirbe vertical drapes.

**Note:** While a shade is moving, the Lutron system will report the target level for the shade rather than the actual current level.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing shade libraryshade [ integrationId=33]
```

### Green Mode

Radio RA2 and HomeWorks QS systems have a "Green Mode" or "Green Button" feature which allows the system to be placed in to one or more user-defined power saving modes called "steps".
Each step can take actions such as trimming down the 100% level on selected lighting dimmers by a specified percentage, shutting off certain loads, modifying thermostat settings, etc.
Typically step 1 is "Off" or "Normal", and step 2 is "Green Mode", however other steps may be defined by the installer as desired.

The **greenmode** thing is used to interface to the green mode subsystem.
It requires that the `integrationId` parameter be set to the ID of the green mode subsystem.
This should generally be 22.
It creates a single channel *step* that can be used to set or query the active green mode step number.

Unlike other Lutron system state settings, the binding is not automatically notified by the bridge device of changes to the current green mode step.
This may be due to a bug in the Lutron firmware.
The handler can be set to poll for the active green mode step so that the binding will know if it has been changed by another station.
The optional `pollInterval` configuration parameter controls how often the handler polls.
It can be set to anywhere between 0 and 240 minutes, and defaults to 15 minutes.
A setting of 0 will disabled polling.
You can also initiate a poll at any time by sending a refresh command (RefreshType.REFRESH) to the step channel.
Note that it should usually be unnecessary for the poll interval to be set to less than 5-10 minutes, since the green mode step typically changes rather infrequently and takes effect gradually.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing greenmode greenmode [ integrationId=22 ]
```

### Timeclock

RadioRA 2 and Homeworks QS have timeclock subsystems that provide scheduled execution of tasks at set times, randomized times or at arbitrary offsets from local sunrise/sunset.
The tasks executed depend on the currently selected timeclock mode (e.g. Normal, Away, Suspend) and the modes themselves are user-definable (RadioRA 2 only).
In addition, tasks can be individually executed, and enabled or disabled for scheduled execution.

The **timeclock** thing provides an interface to timeclock functions.
It allows you to get and set the current timeclock mode, get the current day's sunrise and sunset times, execute a specific task, be notified when a task executes, and enable or disable tasks.
The `integrationId` parameter must be set to the ID of the timeclock subsystem.

It creates the following six channels:

* *clockmode* - Gets or sets the current timeclock mode.
* *sunrise* - The timeclock's local sunrise time for the current day. Read only. You must send a refresh command (RefreshType.REFRESH) to query the system for the current day's sunrise time, as it is not automatically updated.
* *sunset* - The timeclock's local sunset time for the current day. Read only. You must send a refresh command to query the system for the current day's sunset time, as it is not automatically updated.
* *execevent* - Updates with the index number of each executing event. Send an event's index number to start execution of it.
* *enableevent* - Updates with an event's index number when it is enabled. Send an event's index number to enable it.
* *disableevent* - Updates with an event's index number when it is disabled. Send an event's index number to disable it.

All channels except *clockmode* are marked as advanced.

Thing configuration file example:

```
Thing timeclock timeclock [ integrationId=23 ]
```

Example rule to refresh sunrise/sunset channels daily and at restart:

```
import org.eclipse.smarthome.core.types.RefreshType

rule "Lutron sunrise/sunset daily refresh"

when
  // Trigger at time 00:05:00 every day
  Time cron "0 5 0 * * ?" or
  Thing "lutron:timeclock:70acb5a7:23" changed to ONLINE
then
  Timeclock_Sunrise.sendCommand(RefreshType.REFRESH)
  Timeclock_Sunset.sendCommand(RefreshType.REFRESH)
end
```

## Channels

The following is a summary of channels for all RadioRA 2 binding things:

| Thing               | Channel           | Item Type     | Description                                  |
|---------------------|-------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------- |
| dimmer              | lightlevel        | Dimmer        | Increase/decrease the light level            |
| switch              | switchstatus      | Switch        | On/off status of the switch                  |
| occupancysensor     | occupancystatus   | Switch        | Occupancy status                             |
| cco                 | switchstatus      | Switch        | On/off status of the CCO                     |
| keypads (all)       | button*           | Switch        | Keypad button                                |
| keypads(except pico)| led*              | Switch        | LED indicator for the associated button      |
| vcrx                | cci*              | Contact       | Contact closure input on/off status          |
| shade               | shadelevel        | Rollershutter | Level of the shade (100% = full open)        |
| greenmode           | step              | Number        | Get/set active green mode step number        |
| timeclock           | clockmode         | Number        | Get/set active clock mode index number       |
| timeclock           | sunrise           | DateTime      | Get the timeclock's sunrise time             |
| timeclock           | sunset            | DateTime      | Get the timeclock's sunset time              |
| timeclock           | execevent         | Number        | Execute event or monitor events executed     |
| timeclock           | enableevent       | Number        | Enable event or monitor events enabled       |
| timeclock           | disableevent      | Number        | Disable event or monitor events disabled     |

The channels available on each keypad device (i.e. keypad, ttkeypad, intlkeypad, grafikeyekeypad, pico, vcrx, and virtualkeypad) will vary with keypad type and model.
Appropriate channels will be created automatically by the keypad, ttkeypad, intlkeypad, grafikeyekeypad, and pico thing handlers based on the setting of the `model` parameter for those thing types.

### Commands supported by channels

| Thing     | Channel       | Native Type  | Accepts                                               |
|-----------|---------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
|dimmer     |lightlevel     |PercentType   |OnOffType, PercentType                                 |
|switch     |switchstatus   |OnOffType     |OnOffType                                              |
|occ. sensor|occupancystatus|OnOffType     |(*readonly*)                                           |
|cco        |switchstatus   |OnOffType     |OnOffType, RefreshType                                 |
|keypads    |button*        |OnOffType     |OnOffType                                              |
|           |led*           |OnOffType     |OnOffType, RefreshType                                 |
|           |cci*           |OpenClosedType|(*readonly*)                                           |
|shade      |shadelevel     |PercentType   |PercentType, UpDownType, StopMoveType.STOP, RefreshType|
|greenmode  |step           |DecimalType   |DecimalType, OnOffType (ON=2,OFF=1), RefreshType       |
|timeclock  |clockmode      |DecimalType   |DecimalType, RefreshType                               |
|           |sunrise        |DateTimeType  |RefreshType (*readonly*)                               |
|           |sunset         |DateTimeType  |RefreshType (*readonly*)                               |
|           |execevent      |DecimalType   |DecimalType                                            |
|           |enableevent    |DecimalType   |DecimalType                                            |
|           |disableevent   |DecimalType   |DecimalType                                            |

Most channels receive immediate notifications of device state changes from the Lutron control system.
The only exceptions are **greenmode** *step*, which is periodically polled and accepts REFRESH commands to initiate immediate polling, and **timeclock** *sunrise* and *sunset*, which must be polled daily using REFRESH commands to retrieve current values.
Many other channels accept REFRESH commands to initiate a poll, but sending one should not normally be necessary.


## RadioRA 2 Configuration File Example

demo.things:

```
Bridge lutron:ipbridge:radiora2 [ ipAddress="192.168.1.123", user="lutron", password="integration" ] {
        Thing dimmer lrtable "Table Lamp" @ "Living Room" [ integrationId=45, fadeInTime=0.5, fadeOutTime=5 ]
        Thing dimmer lrtorch "Torch Lamp" @ "Living Room" [ integrationId=44, fadeInTime=0.5, fadeOutTime=5 ]
        Thing dimmer lrspot [ integrationId=38, fadeInTime=0.5, fadeOutTime=5 ]
        Thing switch path [ integrationId=61 ]
        Thing keypad entrykeypad [ integrationId=64, model="W7B", autorelease=true ]
        Thing ttkeypad bedroomkeypad [ integrationId=28, model="T15RL", autorelease=true ]
        Thing pico librarypico [ integrationId=71, model="3BRL", autorelease=true ]
        Thing vcrx vcrx1 [ integrationId=34, autorelease=true ]
        Thing cco garage1 [ integrationId=75, outputType="Pulsed", pulseLength=0.5 ]
        Thing shade libraryshade1 [ integrationId=66]
        Thing greenmode greenmode [ integrationId=22 ]
        Thing timeclock timeclock [ integrationId=23 ]
        Thing occupancysensor laundryocc [ integrationId=62 ]
}
```

demo.items:

```
Dimmer   LivingRm_TableLamp  "Table Lamp"      { channel="lutron:dimmer:radiora2:lrtable:lightlevel" }
Switch   FrontYard_PathLight "Path Light"      { channel="lutron:switch:radiora2:path:switchstatus" }
Switch   LaundryRm_Sensor    "Occ Sensor"      { channel="lutron:occupancysensor:radiora2:laundryocc:occupancystatus" }
Switch   Entryway_Keypad_B1  "Keypad Button 1" { channel="lutron:keypad:radiora2:entrykeypad:button1" }
Switch   Entryway_Keypad_L1  "Keypad LED 1"    { channel="lutron:keypad:radiora2:entrykeypad:led1" }
Contact  Vcrx1_CCI1          "Input 1"         { channel="lutron:vcrx:radiora2:vcrx1:cci1" }
Switch   Garage_CCO1         "Garage Door"     { channel="lutron:cco:radiora2:garage1:switchstatus" }
DateTime Timeclock_Sunrise   "Sunrise"         { channel="lutron:timeclock:radiora2:timeclock:sunrise" }
DateTime Timeclock_Sunset    "Sunset"          { channel="lutron:timeclock:radiora2:timeclock:sunset" }
Number   Timeclock_Clockmode "Clock Mode"      { channel="lutron:timeclock:radiora2:timeclock:clockmode" }
Number   Greenmode_Step      "Green Step"      { channel="lutron:greenmode:radiora2:greenmode:step" }
Rollershutter Lib_Shade1     "Shade 1"         { channel="lutron:shade:radiora2:libraryshade1:shadelevel" }

```

# Lutron RadioRA (Classic) Binding

This binding integrates with the legacy Lutron RadioRA (Classic) lighting system.

This binding depends on RS232 communication.
It has only been tested using the Chronos time module but the RS232 module should work as well.  

## Supported Things

This binding currently supports the following thing types:

| Thing            | Type ID | Description                                          |
|------------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------|
| ra-rs232         | Bridge  | RadioRA device that supports RS232 communication     |
| ra-dimmer        | Thing   | Dimmer control                                       |
| ra-switch        | Thing   | Switch control                                       |
| ra-phantomButton | Thing   | Phantom Button to control multiple controls (Scenes) |


## Thing Configurations

| Thing            | Config       | Description                                                           |
|------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ra-rs232         | portName     | The serial port to use to communicate with Chronos or RS232 module    |
|                  | baud         | (Optional) Baud Rate (defaults to 9600)                               |
| ra-dimmer        | zoneNumber   | Assigned Zone Number within the Lutron RadioRA system                 |
|                  | fadeOutSec   | (Optional) Time in seconds dimmer should take when lowering the level |
|                  | fadeInSec    | (Optional) Time in seconds dimmer should take when lowering the level |
| ra-switch        | zoneNumber   | Assigned Zone Number within the Lutron RadioRA system                 |
| ra-phantomButton | buttonNumber | Phantom Button Number within the Lutron RadioRA system                |

## Channels

The following channels are supported:

| Thing Type                 | Channel ID   | Item Type | Description                        |
|----------------------------|--------------|-----------|------------------------------------|
| ra-dimmer                  | lightlevel   | Dimmer    | Increase/Decrease dimmer intensity |
| ra-switch/ra-phantomButton | switchstatus | Switch    | On/Off state of switch             |

## Example

lutronradiora.things

```
Bridge lutronradiora:ra-rs232:chronos1 [portName="/dev/ttys002"] {
    Thing ra-dimmer dimmer1 [ zoneNumber=1 ]
    Thing ra-dimmer dimmer2 [ zoneNumber=2 ]
    Thing ra-switch switch1 [ zoneNumber=3 ]
    Thing ra-switch switch2 [ zoneNumber=4 ]
    Thing ra-phantomButton1 phantomButton1 [ buttonNumber=1 ]
}
```

lutronradiora.items

```
Dimmer Dimmer_Kitchen "Kitchen Lights" { channel="lutronradiora:dimmer:chronos1:dimmer1:lightlevel" }
Dimmer Dimmer_FamilyRoom "Family Room Lights" { channel="lutronradiora:dimmer:chronos1:dimmer2:lightlevel" }
Switch Switch_Patio "Patio Light" { channel="lutronradiora:dimmer:chronos1:switch1:switchstatus" }
Switch Switch_FrontDoor "Front Door Lights" { channel="lutronradiora:switch:chronos1:switch2:switchstatus" }
Switch Phantom_Movie "Movie Scene" { channel="lutronradiora:phantomButton:chronos1:phantomButton1:switchstatus" }
```

# Legacy HomeWorks RS232 (Serial) Processors

The binding supports legacy HomeWorks processors that interface with a Serial RS232 connection.  To connect to such a system, you would need to use a RS232 -> USB adapter (assuming you don't have a serial port).  

Please see [HomeWorks RS232 Protocol Guide](http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/HWI%20RS232%20Protocol.pdf) for information on the protocol.

## Supported Things

* HomeWorks RS232-connected Processor Units
* Dimmers

Supported in future updates:

* Keypads
* Keypad LEDs

## Discovery

This binding supports active and passive discovery.  It will detect dimmers as they are manually raised or lowered, or can be made to scan for configured dimmer modules.

## Thing Configuration

The bridge requires the port location (e.g., /dev/ttyUSB1 or COM1) and the baud rate.  The default baud rate for HomeWorks processors is set to 9600.  

```
lutron:hwserialbridge:home [serialPort="/dev/ttyUSB1", baudRate="9600]
```

Dimmers have one required parameter ``address`` that specifies the device address (e.g., [01:01:03:02:04]) and two optional parameters: ``fadeTime`` which sets the time it takes to set the light level when changed, and ``defaultLevel`` which sets the level to use for the dimmer when turning it on (with a switch rather than a slider).

```
lutron:hwdimmer:dimmer1 [address="[01:01:03:02:04]", fadeTime="1", defaultLevel="75"] 
```

## Channels

The following channels are supported:

| Thing Type      | Channel Type ID   | Item Type    | Description                                  |
|-----------------|-------------------|--------------|--------------------------------------------- |
| dimmer          | lightlevel        | Dimmer       | Increase/decrease the light level            |


# Lutron Grafik Eye 3x/4x binding via GRX-PRG or GRX-CI-PRG

This lutron binding will also work with Grafik Eye 3x/4x systems in conjuction with the GRX-PRG or GRX-CI-PRG interfaces.
Please see [RS232ProtocolCommandSet](http://www.lutron.com/TechnicalDocumentLibrary/RS232ProtocolCommandSet.040196d.pdf) for more information.

## Supported Things

1-8 Grafik Eye 3x/4x System(s) through the interface

## Discovery

This binding does not support discovery of the GRX-PRG or GRX-CI-PRG.
You will need to specify them directly.

## Thing Configuration

The bridge requires the IP address/Host name of the bridge.
Optionally, you may specify the username (defaults to 'nwk') and retryPolling (in seconds) to retry connections if the connection fails (defaults to 10 seconds).
This bridge does support two way communication with the Grafik Eye units (if a scene is selected or a zone changed on the unit or via a keypad, that information is immediately available in openhab).

```
lutron:prgbridge:home [ ipAddress="192.168.1.51", user="nwk", retryPolling=10 ]
```

The Grafik Eye thing requires the control unit address (1-8).
Optionally you may specify the default fade time (when raising/lowering zones or setting zone intensities) and polling time (in seconds) to refresh the state from the Grafik Eye (defaults to 30 seconds).
If any of the zones control a QED shade (via the SG/SO-SVCN/SVCI keypad), those zones
should be listed (comma separated list) in the shadeZones.

```
lutron:grafikeye:home (lutron:prgbridge:home) [ controlUnit=1, fade=10, polling=30, shadeZones="2,3,4" ]
```

## Channels

### Bridge channels

| Channel Type ID | Readonly | Item Type | Description                                                   |
|-----------------|----------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| zonelowerstop   | No       | Switch    | Stops zone lowering on all control units                      |
| zoneraisestop   | No       | Switch    | Stops zone raising on all control units                       |
| timeclock       | No       | DateTime  | Current time on the PRG                                       |
| schedule        | No       | Number    | Current Schedule (0=Disabled, 1=Weekday, 2=Weekend)           |
| sunrise         | Yes      | DateTime  | Time of Sunrise                                               |
| sunset          | Yes      | DateTime  | Time of Sunset                                                |
| ssstart         | No       | Switch    | Starts the Super Sequence                                     |
| sspause         | No       | Switch    | Pauses the Super Sequence                                     |
| ssresume        | No       | Switch    | Resumes the Super Sequence                                    |
| ssstatus        | Yes      | String    | Status of the Super Sequence (R=Running, S=Stopped)           |
| ssnextstep      | Yes      | Number    | Next sequence number in the Super Sequence                    |
| ssnextminute    | Yes      | Number    | How many minutes until the next step in the Super Sequence    |
| ssnextsecond    | Yes      | Number    | How many seconds until the next step in the Super Sequence    |
| buttonpress     | Yes      | String    | Last keypad button pressed (see Appendix A) in protocol guide |



### Grafik Eye channels

| Channel Type ID   | Readonly | Item Type     | Description                                                    |
|-------------------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| scene             | No       | Number        | The current scene                                              |
| scenelock         | No       | Switch        | Locks/unlocks the current scene                                |
| sceneseq          | No       | Switch        | Starts/Stops the scene sequence                                |
| zonelock          | No       | Switch        | Locks/unlocks the zones                                        |
| zonefade          | No       | Number        | The seconds to fade from one intensity to the next             |
| zonelowerX        | No       | Switch        | Lowers the specified zone                                      |
| zoneraiseX        | No       | Switch        | Raises the specified zone                                      |
| zoneintensityX    | No       | Number        | Specifies the zone intensity                                   |
| zoneshadeX        | No       | Rollershutter | Specifies the shade zone                                       |

### Notes

* The "buttonpress" channel reports which keypad button was pressed.  DIP switch 6 must be set on the interface for this to be reported.  The "buttonpress" channel is only useful in rules to take action when a specific button (on a specific keypad) has been pressed.
* Sunset/sunrise will only be available if configured via the Liasion software
* scenelock, sceneseq, zonelock cannot be determined from the API and will default to OFF on startup
* Replace the "X" on zonelowerX, zoneraiseX, etc with the zone in question.  "zonelower1" will affect zone 1.  Specifying a zone larger than you have will have no effect (such as using zonelower8 on a Grafik Eye 3506 which only has 6 zones).
* The zonefade value will only be used when zonelower/zonereaise/zoneintensity is issued. 
* zoneshade does not support PercentType nor StopMoveType.Move and those commands will be ignored
* zoneintensity can be used on a shade zone if the intensity is from 0 to 5 and should be used if wanting to set a QED preset: 0=Stop, 1=Open, 2=Close, 3=Preset 1, 4=Preset 2, 5=Preset 3 
* If you started a zonelower or zoneraise, the only way to stop the action is by executing an all zone stop on the bridge (i.e. zonelowerstop or zoneraisestop).  The PRG API does not provide a way to stop the lowering/raising of any specific zone.
 

## Example

demo.Things:

```
lutron:prgbridge:home [ ipAddress="192.168.1.51", user="nwk", retryPolling=10 ]
lutron:grafikeye:home (lutron:prgbridge:home) [ controlUnit=1, fade=10, polling=10 ]
```

demo.items:

```
String Prg_ButtonPress "Last Button Press [%s]" { channel = "lutron:prgbridge:home:buttonpress" }
Switch Prg_ZoneLowerStop "Zone Lower Stop" { channel = "lutron:prgbridge:home:zonelowerstop",autoupdate="false" }
Switch Prg_ZoneRaiseStop "Zone Raise Stop" { channel = "lutron:prgbridge:home:zoneraisestop",autoupdate="false" }
DateTime Prg_Time "Current Time: [%1$tF %1$tr]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:timeclock" }
Number Prg_Schedule "Schedule [%s]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:schedule" }
DateTime Prg_Sunrise "Sunrise [%1$tF %1$tr]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:sunrise" }
DateTime Prg_Sunset "Sunset [%1$tF %1$tr]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:sunset" }
Switch Prg_Start "Super Schedule Start" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssstart", autoupdate="false"  }
Switch Prg_Pause "Super Schedule Pause" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:sspause", autoupdate="false"  }
Switch Prg_Resume "Super Schedule Resume" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssresume", autoupdate="false"  }
String Prg_Status "Super Schedule Status [%s]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssstatus" }
Number Prg_NextStep "Super Schedule Next Step [%s]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssnextstep" }
Number Prg_NextMinute "Super Schedule Next Step Minutes [%s]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssnextminute" }
Number Prg_NextSecond "Super Schedule Next Step Seconds [%s]" { channel="lutron:prgbridge:home:ssnextsecond" }

Number Grx_Scene "Scene [%s]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:scene" }
Switch Grx_SceneLock "Scene Lock" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:scenelock" }
Switch Grx_SceneSeq "Scene Sequence" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:sceneseq" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLock "Zone Lock" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelock" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower1 "Zone 1 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower1" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower2 "Zone 2 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower2" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower3 "Zone 3 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower3" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower4 "Zone 4 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower4" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower5 "Zone 5 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower5" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower6 "Zone 6 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower6" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower7 "Zone 7 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower7" }
Switch Grx_ZoneLower8 "Zone 8 Lower" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonelower8" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise1 "Zone 1 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise1" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise2 "Zone 2 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise2" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise3 "Zone 3 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise3" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise4 "Zone 4 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise4" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise5 "Zone 5 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise5" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise6 "Zone 6 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise6" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise7 "Zone 7 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise7" }
Switch Grx_ZoneRaise8 "Zone 8 Raise" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneraise8" }
Number Grx_ZoneFade "Zone Fade [%s sec]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zonefade" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity1 "Zone 1 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity1" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity2 "Zone 2 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity2" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity3 "Zone 3 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity3" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity4 "Zone 4 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity4" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity5 "Zone 5 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity5" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity6 "Zone 6 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity6" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity7 "Zone 7 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity7" }
Dimmer Grx_ZoneIntensity8 "Zone 8 Intensity [%d %%]" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneintensity8" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade1 "Zone 1 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade1" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade2 "Zone 2 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade2" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade3 "Zone 3 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade3" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade4 "Zone 4 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade4" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade5 "Zone 5 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade5" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade6 "Zone 6 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade6" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade7 "Zone 7 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade7" }
Rollershutter Grx_ZoneShade8 "Zone 8 Shade" { channel="lutron:grafikeye:home:zoneshade8" }
```

Lutron, GRAFIK Eye, HomeWorks, HomeWorks QS, RadioRA, RadioRA 2, RA2 Select, Caseta, Sivoia QS, Serena, seeTouch, Pico, and Quantum are trademarks of Lutron Electronics Co., Inc.
HomeLink is a registered trademark of Gentex Corporation.
This software and its associated documentation are not endorsed or approved by Lutron Electronics Co.
