bundles/org.openhab.binding.hue/doc/readme_v2.md, before:

# Philips Hue Binding Configuration for API v2

[Back to Overview](../README.md#philips-hue-binding)

## Supported Things

The binding supports `bridge-api2`, `device`, `room`, and `zone` thing types.
The `bridge-api2` thing type represents the Hue Bridge which is the server for all other things.
The `device` thing type represents a piece of physical equipment in the home.
Such `device` things may contain either a *light*, a *button*, or (one or more) *sensors*.
Lights can be of any type from a simple on/off light, through dimmable monochrome lights, to full colour dimmable lights.
Buttons are devices having one or more push buttons.
Sensors can be (for example) light level sensors, temperature sensors, or motion sensors.
The `room` and `zone` thing type represents logical groupings of equipment in the home, either within a specific room, or a logical group of equipment.

## Thing Configuration

### Bridge

The Hue Bridge requires the IP address as a configuration value in order for the binding to know where to access it.
It requires an 'application key' to authenticate against the Hue Bridge.
This may be copied from an API v1 installation, or it may be automatically generated (press button to authenticate).
Please note that the generated application key cannot be written automatically to the `.things` file, and has to be set manually.
The generated application key can be found, after pressing the authentication button on the bridge, with the following console command: `openhab:hue <bridgeUID> applicationkey`.
The application key can be set using the `applicationKey` configuration value, e.g.:

```java
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:1 [ ipAddress="192.168.0.64", applicationKey="qwertzuiopasdfghjklyxcvbnm1234" ]
```

| Parameter                | Description                                                                                        |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ipAddress                | Network address of the Hue Bridge. **Mandatory**.                                                  |
| applicationKey           | A code generated by the bridge that allows to access the API. **Mandatory**                        |
| checkMinutes             | Interval in minutes between retrying the HTTP 2 and SSE connections. Default is 60. **Advanced**   |
| useSelfSignedCertificate | Use self-signed certificate for HTTPS connection to Hue Bridge. Default is `true`. **Advanced**    |

### Devices, Rooms, and Zones

Apart from the Bridge, there are three other types of thing -- namely `device`, `room`, and `zone`.
Device things represent physical hardware devices in the system, whereas `room` and `zone` things represent sets of physical lights, either in a room or a zone.
In addition to regular rooms and zones, there is a 'super' `zone` that allows you to control all of the lights in the system.

All things are identified by a unique Resource Identifier string that the Hue Bridge assigns to them e.g. `d1ae958e-8908-449a-9897-7f10f9b8d4c2`.
Thus, all it needs for manual configuration is this single value like

```java
device officelamp "Lamp 1" @ "Office" [ resourceId="d1ae958e-8908-449a-9897-7f10f9b8d4c2" ]
..
zone kitchenLights "Kitchen Down Lights" @ "Kitchen" [ resourceId="7f10f9b8-8908-449a-9897-d4c2d1ae958e" ]
```

You can get a list of all devices in the bridge and their respective Resource Ids by entering the following console command: `openhab:hue <bridgeUID> things`
See [console command](#console-command-for-finding-resourceids)

The configuration of all things (as described above) is the same regardless of whether it is a device containing a light, a button, or (one or more) sensors, or whether it is a room or zone.

### Channels for Devices

Device things support some of the following channels:

| Channel Type ID     | Item Type          | Description                                                                           |
|---------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| switch              | Switch             | This channel supports switching the device on and off.                                |
| color               | Color              | This channel supports full color control with hue, saturation and brightness values.  |
| brightness          | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the brightness value.                                 |
| color-temperature   | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the color temperature from cold (0%) to warm (100%).  |
| color-temp-kelvin   | Number:Temperature | This channel supports adjusting the color temperature in Kelvin.                      |
| button-last-event   | Number             | This channel shows which button was last pressed in the device.                       |
| rotary-steps        | Number             | This channel shows the number of rotary steps of the last rotary dial movement.       |
| motion              | Switch             | This channel shows if motion has been detected by the sensor.                         |
| motion-enabled      | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the motion sensor.                         |
| light-level         | Number             | This channel shows the current light level measured by the sensor.                    |
| light-level-enabled | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the light level sensor.                    |
| temperature         | Number:Temperature | This channel shows the current temperature measured by the sensor.                    |
| temperature-enabled | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the temperature sensor.                    |
| battery-level       | Number             | This channel shows the battery level.                                                 |
| battery-low         | Switch             | This channel indicates whether the battery is low or not.                             |
| zigbee-status       | String             | This channel provides information about the status of the Zigbee connection.          |
| last-updated        | DateTime           | This channel the date and time when the thing state was last updated.                 |

The exact list of channels in a given device is determined at run time when the system is started.
Each device reports its own live list of capabilities, and the respective list of channels is created accordingly.

The `zigbee-status` indicates the connectivity state of the device.
If the device has connectivity issues, the thing state will change to 'OFFLINE'

The `button-last-event` channel value is a number that is calculated from the following formula:

```text
value = (button_id * 1000) + event_id;
```

In a single button device, the `button_id` is 1, whereas in a multi- button device the `button_id` can be either 1, 2, 3, or 4 depending on which button was pressed.
The `event_id` can have the following values:

| Event                | Value |
|----------------------|-------|
| INITIAL_PRESS        | 0     |
| REPEAT               | 1     |
| SHORT_RELEASE        | 2     |
| LONG_RELEASE         | 3     |
| DOUBLE_SHORT_RELEASE | 4     |

So (for example) the channel value `1002` ((1 * 1000) + 2) means that the second button in the device had a short release event.

The `rotary-steps` channel value is the number of steps corresponding to the last movement of a rotary dial.
A positive number means the dial was rotated clock-wise, whereas a negative number means it was roated counter-clockwise.

### Channels for Rooms and Zones

Room and Zone things allow you to control the lights in a given zone or room.
They support the following channels:

| Channel Type ID     | Item Type          | Description                                                                           |
|---------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| switch              | Switch             | This channel supports switching the lights on and off.                                |
| brightness          | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the brightness value.                                 |
| scene<sup>1)</sup>  | String             | Setting the string to a valid scene friendly name activates the respective scene.     |

<sup>1)</sup> The scene channel is optional.
If the respective room or zone has no scenes associated with it, the channel will not be shown.

## Console Command for finding ResourceIds

The openHAB console has a command named `openhab:hue` that (among other things) lists the `resourceId` of all device things in the bridge.
The console command usage is `openhab:hue <brigeUID> things`.
An exampe of such a console command, and its respective output, is shown below..

```text
openhab> openhab:hue hue:bridge-api2:g24 things
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:g24 "Philips Hue Bridge" [ipAddress="192.168.1.234", applicationKey="abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"] {
  Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555 "Standard Lamp L" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555"] // Hue color lamp
  Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Wallplate Switch" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"] // Hue wall switch module
  ..
}
```

The `openhab:hue <brigeUID> things` command produces an output that can be used to directly create a `.things' file, as shown below..

```text
openhab> openhab:hue hue:bridge-api2:g24 things > myThingsFile.things
```

## Full Example

### demo.things:

```java
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:g24 "Philips Hue Hub" @ "Home" [ipAddress="192.168.1.234", applicationKey="abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"] {
    Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555 "Living Room Standard Lamp Left" @ "Living Room" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555"]
    Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Wallplate Switch" @ "Kitchen" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"]

    Thing zone 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Lights" @ "Kitchen" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"]
}
```

### demo.items:

```java
Color Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Colour "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Colour" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:color"}
Dimmer Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Brightness "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Brightness [%.0f %%]" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:brightness"}
Switch Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Switch "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Switch" (g_Lights_On_Count) {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:switch"}

Number Kitchen_Wallplate_Switch_Last_Event "Kitchen Wallplate Switch Last Event" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666:button-last-event"}
Switch Kitchen_Wallplate_Switch_Battery_Low_Alarm "Kitchen Wallplate Switch Battery Low Alarm" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666:battery-low"}
```

### demo.sitemap:

```perl
sitemap demo label="Hue" {
  Frame label="Standard Lamp" {
    Switch item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Switch
    Slider item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Brightness
    Colorpicker item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Colour
  }
}
```

[Back to Overview](../README.md#philips-hue-binding)

Commit message:

[hue] multi hub migration; add alert & effect channels
Signed-off-by: Andrew Fiddian-Green <software@whitebear.ch>

bundles/org.openhab.binding.hue/doc/readme_v2.md, after:

# Philips Hue Binding Configuration for API v2

[Back to Overview](../README.md#philips-hue-binding)

## Supported Things

The binding supports `bridge-api2`, `device`, `room`, and `zone` thing types.
The `bridge-api2` thing type represents the Hue Bridge which is the server for all other things.
The `device` thing type represents a piece of physical equipment in the home.
Such `device` things may contain either a *light*, a *button*, or (one or more) *sensors*.
Lights can be of any type from a simple on/off light, through dimmable monochrome lights, to full colour dimmable lights.
Buttons are devices having one or more push buttons.
Sensors can be (for example) light level sensors, temperature sensors, or motion sensors.
The `room` and `zone` thing type represents logical groupings of equipment in the home, either within a specific room, or a logical group of equipment.

## Thing Configuration

### Bridge

The Hue Bridge requires the IP address as a configuration value in order for the binding to know where to access it.
It requires an 'application key' to authenticate against the Hue Bridge.
This may be copied from an API v1 installation, or it may be automatically generated (press button to authenticate).
Please note that the generated application key cannot be written automatically to the `.things` file, and has to be set manually.
The generated application key can be found, after pressing the authentication button on the bridge, with the following console command: `openhab:hue <bridgeUID> applicationkey`.
The application key can be set using the `applicationKey` configuration value, e.g.:

```java
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:1 [ ipAddress="192.168.0.64", applicationKey="qwertzuiopasdfghjklyxcvbnm1234" ]
```

| Parameter                | Description                                                                                        |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ipAddress                | Network address of the Hue Bridge. **Mandatory**.                                                  |
| applicationKey           | A code generated by the bridge that allows to access the API. **Mandatory**                        |
| checkMinutes             | Interval in minutes between retrying the HTTP 2 and SSE connections. Default is 60. **Advanced**   |
| useSelfSignedCertificate | Use self-signed certificate for HTTPS connection to Hue Bridge. Default is `true`. **Advanced**    |

### Devices, Rooms, and Zones

Apart from the Bridge, there are three other types of thing -- namely `device`, `room`, and `zone`.
Device things represent physical hardware devices in the system, whereas `room` and `zone` things represent sets of physical lights, either in a room or a zone.
In addition to regular rooms and zones, there is a 'super' `zone` that allows you to control all of the lights in the system.

All things are identified by a unique Resource Identifier string that the Hue Bridge assigns to them e.g. `d1ae958e-8908-449a-9897-7f10f9b8d4c2`.
Thus, all it needs for manual configuration is this single value like

```java
device officelamp "Lamp 1" @ "Office" [ resourceId="d1ae958e-8908-449a-9897-7f10f9b8d4c2" ]
..
zone kitchenLights "Kitchen Down Lights" @ "Kitchen" [ resourceId="7f10f9b8-8908-449a-9897-d4c2d1ae958e" ]
```

You can get a list of all devices in the bridge and their respective Resource Ids by entering the following console command: `openhab:hue <bridgeUID> things`
See [console command](#console-command-for-finding-resourceids)

The configuration of all things (as described above) is the same regardless of whether it is a device containing a light, a button, or (one or more) sensors, or whether it is a room or zone.

### Channels for Devices

Device things support some of the following channels:

| Channel Type ID     | Item Type          | Description                                                                           |
|---------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| switch              | Switch             | This channel supports switching the device on and off.                                |
| color               | Color              | This channel supports full color control with hue, saturation and brightness values.  |
| brightness          | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the brightness value.                                 |
| color-temperature   | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the color temperature from cold (0%) to warm (100%).  |
| color-temp-kelvin   | Number:Temperature | This channel supports adjusting the color temperature in Kelvin.                      |
| alert               | String             | This channel allows setting an alert on a light e.g. flashing them.                   |
| effect              | String             | This channel allows setting an effect on a light e.g. 'candle' effect.                |
| button-last-event   | Number             | This channel shows which button was last pressed in the device.                       |
| rotary-steps        | Number             | This channel shows the number of rotary steps of the last rotary dial movement.       |
| motion              | Switch             | This channel shows if motion has been detected by the sensor.                         |
| motion-enabled      | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the motion sensor.                         |
| light-level         | Number             | This channel shows the current light level measured by the sensor.                    |
| light-level-enabled | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the light level sensor.                    |
| temperature         | Number:Temperature | This channel shows the current temperature measured by the sensor.                    |
| temperature-enabled | Switch             | This channel supports enabling / disabling the temperature sensor.                    |
| battery-level       | Number             | This channel shows the battery level.                                                 |
| battery-low         | Switch             | This channel indicates whether the battery is low or not.                             |
| zigbee-status       | String             | This channel provides information about the status of the Zigbee connection.          |
| last-updated        | DateTime           | This channel the date and time when the thing state was last updated.                 |

The exact list of channels in a given device is determined at run time when the system is started.
Each device reports its own live list of capabilities, and the respective list of channels is created accordingly.

The `zigbee-status` indicates the connectivity state of the device.
If the device has connectivity issues, the thing state will change to 'OFFLINE'

The `button-last-event` channel value is a number that is calculated from the following formula:

```text
value = (button_id * 1000) + event_id;
```

In a single button device, the `button_id` is 1, whereas in a multi- button device the `button_id` can be either 1, 2, 3, or 4 depending on which button was pressed.
The `event_id` can have the following values:

| Event                | Value |
|----------------------|-------|
| INITIAL_PRESS        | 0     |
| REPEAT               | 1     |
| SHORT_RELEASE        | 2     |
| LONG_RELEASE         | 3     |
| DOUBLE_SHORT_RELEASE | 4     |

So (for example) the channel value `1002` ((1 * 1000) + 2) means that the second button in the device had a short release event.

The `rotary-steps` channel value is the number of steps corresponding to the last movement of a rotary dial.
A positive number means the dial was rotated clock-wise, whereas a negative number means it was roated counter-clockwise.

### Channels for Rooms and Zones

Room and Zone things allow you to control the lights in a given zone or room.
They support the following channels:

| Channel Type ID     | Item Type          | Description                                                                           |
|---------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| switch              | Switch             | This channel supports switching the lights on and off.                                |
| brightness          | Dimmer             | This channel supports adjusting the brightness value.                                 |
| scene<sup>1)</sup>  | String             | Setting the string to a valid scene friendly name activates the respective scene.     |
| alert<sup>1)</sup>  | String             | This channel allows setting an alert on the lights e.g. flashing them.                |

<sup>1)</sup> The scene and alert channels are optional.
If the respective room or zone has no scenes or alerts associated with it, the respective channel will not be shown.

## Console Command for finding ResourceIds

The openHAB console has a command named `openhab:hue` that (among other things) lists the `resourceId` of all device things in the bridge.
The console command usage is `openhab:hue <brigeUID> things`.
An exampe of such a console command, and its respective output, is shown below..

```text
openhab> openhab:hue hue:bridge-api2:g24 things
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:g24 "Philips Hue Bridge" [ipAddress="192.168.1.234", applicationKey="abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"] {
  Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555 "Standard Lamp L" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555"] // Hue color lamp
  Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Wallplate Switch" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"] // Hue wall switch module
  ..
}
```

The `openhab:hue <brigeUID> things` command produces an output that can be used to directly create a `.things' file, as shown below..

```text
openhab> openhab:hue hue:bridge-api2:g24 things > myThingsFile.things
```

## Full Example

### demo.things:

```java
Bridge hue:bridge-api2:g24 "Philips Hue Hub" @ "Home" [ipAddress="192.168.1.234", applicationKey="abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"] {
    Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555 "Living Room Standard Lamp Left" @ "Living Room" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555"]
    Thing device 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Wallplate Switch" @ "Kitchen" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"]

    Thing zone 11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666 "Kitchen Lights" @ "Kitchen" [resourceId="11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666"]
}
```

### demo.items:

```java
Color Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Colour "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Colour" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:color"}
Dimmer Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Brightness "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Brightness [%.0f %%]" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:brightness"}
Switch Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Switch "Living Room Standard Lamp Left Switch" (g_Lights_On_Count) {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555:switch"}

Number Kitchen_Wallplate_Switch_Last_Event "Kitchen Wallplate Switch Last Event" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666:button-last-event"}
Switch Kitchen_Wallplate_Switch_Battery_Low_Alarm "Kitchen Wallplate Switch Battery Low Alarm" {channel="hue:device:g24:11111111-2222-3333-4444-666666666666:battery-low"}
```

### demo.sitemap:

```perl
sitemap demo label="Hue" {
  Frame label="Standard Lamp" {
    Switch item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Switch
    Slider item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Brightness
    Colorpicker item=Living_Room_Standard_Lamp_Left_Colour
  }
}
```

[Back to Overview](../README.md#philips-hue-binding)
