bundles/org.openhab.binding.sonnen/README.md, before:

# Sonnen Binding

The binding for sonnen communicates with a sonnen battery.
More information about the sonnen battery can be found [here](https://sonnen.de/).

## Supported Things

| Thing Type    | Description                    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ |
| sonnenbattery | Monitoring of a sonnen battery |

## Thing Configuration

Only the parameter `hostIP` is required; this is the IP address of the sonnen battery in your local network.

## Channels

The following channels are yet supported:

| Channel                        | Type          | Access | Description                                                                             |
| ------------------------------ | ------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| batteryChargingState           | Switch        | read   | Indicates if the Battery is charging at that moment                                     |
| batteryCharging                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current charging the Battery. Otherwise 0.                         |
| batteryDischargingState        | Switch        | read   | Indicates if the Battery is discharging at that moment                                  |
| batteryDischarging             | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current discharging the Battery. Otherwise 0.                      |
| batteryFeedIn                  | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual charging current of the Battery in watt                            |
| batteryDischarging             | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current discharging the Battery in watt                            |
| consumption                    | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual consumption of the consumer in watt                                |
| gridFeedIn                     | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current feeding to the Grid in watt.0 if nothing is feeded         |
| gridConsumption                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current consumption from the Grid in watt.0 if nothing is received |
| solarProduction                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual production of the Solar system in watt                             |
| batteryLevel                   | Number        | read   | Indicates the actual Battery Level in % from 0 - 100                                    |
| flowConsumptionBatteryState    | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Battery towards Consumption                   |
| flowConsumptionGridState       | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Grid towards Consumption                      |
| flowConsumptionProductionState | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Solar Production towards Consumption          |
| flowGridBatteryState           | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Grid towards Battery                          |
| flowProductionBatteryState     | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Production towards Battery                    |
| flowProductionGridState        | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Production towards Grid                       |

## Full Example

example.things:

```java
Thing sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery "Sonnen Battery"  [ hostIP="192.168.0.10"]
```

example.items:

```java
Number:Energy Consumption { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:consumption" }
Number:Energy GridFeeding { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:gridFeedIn" }
Number BatteryLevel { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:batteryLevel" }
Switch FlowConsumptionBattery { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:flowConsumptionBattery" }
```

## Tested Hardware

The binding was successfully tested with the following sonnen battery:

- sonnnen eco 8.0 SW Version: 1.6.10.1221979

Commit message:

[sonnen] Update to API V2 of vendor and add PowerMeter (#14589)
* Implementing sonnen APi V2
* Fixed issues with powermeter and added two more channels from consumption.

Signed-off-by: chingon007 <tron81@gmx.de>

bundles/org.openhab.binding.sonnen/README.md, after:

# Sonnen Binding

The binding for sonnen communicates with a sonnen battery.
More information about the sonnen battery can be found [here](https://sonnen.de/).
The binding supports the old deprecated V1 from sonnen as well as V2 which requires an authentication token.
More information about the V2 API can be found at `http://LOCAL-SONNENBATTERY-SYSTEM-IP/api/doc.html`

## Supported Things

| Thing Type    | Description                    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ |
| sonnenbattery | Monitoring of a sonnen battery |

## Thing Configuration

Only the parameter `hostIP` is required; this is the IP address of the sonnen battery in your local network.
If you want to use the V2 API, which supports more channels, you need to provide the `authToken`.

## Channels

The following channels are yet supported:

| Channel                        | Type          | Access | Description                                                                             |
| ------------------------------ | ------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| batteryChargingState           | Switch        | read   | Indicates if the Battery is charging at that moment                                     |
| batteryCharging                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current charging the Battery. Otherwise 0.                         |
| batteryDischargingState        | Switch        | read   | Indicates if the Battery is discharging at that moment                                  |
| batteryDischarging             | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current discharging the Battery. Otherwise 0.                      |
| batteryFeedIn                  | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual charging current of the Battery in watt                            |
| batteryDischarging             | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current discharging the Battery in watt                            |
| consumption                    | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual consumption of the consumer in watt                                |
| gridFeedIn                     | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current feeding to the Grid in watt.0 if nothing is feeded         |
| gridConsumption                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual current consumption from the Grid in watt.0 if nothing is received |
| solarProduction                | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the actual production of the Solar system in watt                             |
| batteryLevel                   | Number        | read   | Indicates the actual Battery Level in % from 0 - 100                                    |
| flowConsumptionBatteryState    | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Battery towards Consumption                   |
| flowConsumptionGridState       | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Grid towards Consumption                      |
| flowConsumptionProductionState | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Solar Production towards Consumption          |
| flowGridBatteryState           | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Grid towards Battery                          |
| flowProductionBatteryState     | Switch        | read   | Indicates if there is a current flow from Production towards Battery                    |
| energyImportedStateProduction  | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the imported kWh Production                                                   |
| energyExportedStateProduction  | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the exported kWh Production                                                   |
| energyImportedStateConsumption | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the imported kWh Consumption                                                  |
| energyExportedStateConsumption | Number:Energy | read   | Indicates the exported kWh Consumption                                                  |

## Full Example

example.things:

```java
Thing sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery "Sonnen Battery"  [ hostIP="192.168.0.10"]
```

example.items:

```java
Number:Energy Consumption { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:consumption" }
Number:Energy GridFeeding { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:gridFeedIn" }
Number BatteryLevel { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:batteryLevel" }
Switch FlowConsumptionBattery { channel="sonnen:sonnenbattery:myBattery:flowConsumptionBattery" }
```

## Tested Hardware

The binding was successfully tested with the following sonnen battery:

- sonnnen eco 8.0 SW Version: 1.6.10.1221979
